
   1. ALFIE THE DOORSTEP CAT
   Chapter One
   ‘It’s not going to take too long to pack up the house,’ Linda said.
   ‘Linda, you’re so optimistic; look at all the junk your mother collected,’ Jeremy replied.
   ‘That’s unfair. She’s got some nice china and you never know, some of it might be worth something.’
   I was pretending to be asleep but my ears were pricked up, listening to what was being said as I tried to stop my tail flicking in agitation. I was curled up on Margaret’s favourite chair – or rather, the chair that had been her favourite – watching her daughter and son-in-law discuss what would happen; determining my future. The past few days had been so terrifyingly confusing, especially as I didn’t fully understand what had happened. However, what I didunderstand as I listened, trying my best not to cry, was that life would never be the same again.
   ‘You’ll be lucky. Anyway, we should call a house clearance place. Lord knows we don’t want any of her stuff.’ I tried to sneak a look without them noticing. Jeremy was tall, grey haired and bad tempered. I had never really liked him, but the woman, Linda, had always been nice to me.
   ‘I’d like a chance to keep a few of Mum’s things. I’ll miss her.’ Linda started crying and I yearned to yowl along with her, but I kept quiet.
   ‘I know, love,’ Jeremy’s voice softened. ‘It’s just that we can’t stay here forever. Now the funeral’s over, we need to think about getting the house on the market and, well, if we get it packed up, we can be off in a few days.’
   ‘It just seems so final, though. But you’re right, of course.’ She sighed. ‘And what about Alfie?’ I bristled. This was what I was waiting for. What would happen to me?
   ‘We need to put him in a shelter I suppose.’ I felt my fur stand on end.
   ‘A shelter? But Mum loved him so much. It seems so cruel to just get rid of him.’ I wished I could voice my agreement with her; it was beyond cruel.
   ’But you know we can’t take him home. We’ve got two dogs, love. A cat just won’t work for us, you know that.’
   I was incensed. It wasn’t that I wanted to go with them, but I absolutely couldn’t go to a shelter.
   Shelter. My body shuddered at the word; such an inappropriate name for what we in the cat community thought of as‘death row’. There might be a few lucky cats who got rehomed, but then who knew what happened to them? Who was to say that the family that rehomed them would treat them well? The cats I knew unanimously agreed that a shelter was a bad place. And we knew full well that for those that weren’tre-homed, the death sentence loomed.
   Although I considered myself a handsome cat with a certain kind of charm, there was no way I was going to take that risk.
   ‘I know you’re right, the dogs would eat him alive. And they’re very good at these shelters these days, so he might be rehomed quickly.’ She paused as if she was still mulling things over. ‘No, it has to be done. I’ll call the shelter in the morning and the house clearance company. ThenI guess we can get an estate agent round.’ She sounded more sure of herself and I knew my fate had been sealed unless I did something about it.
   ‘Now you’re thinking straight. I know this is hard, but Linda, your mum was very old and honestly, it’s not like it was a huge surprise.’
   ‘That doesn’t make it easy though, does it?’
   I put my paws over my ears. My little head was reeling. In the past two weeks I had lost my owner, the only human I’d ever really known. Life had been turned upside down and I was heartbroken, desolate and now, it seemed, homeless. What on earth was a cat like me supposed to do?
   I was what was known as a‘lap cat’. I didn’t feel the need to be out all night hunting, prowling or socialising, when I had a warm lap, food and comfort. I also had company; a family. But then it was all taken away, leaving my cat heart totally broken. For the first time ever I was all alone.
   I had lived in this small terraced house with my owner, Margaret, almost my whole life. I also had a sister cat called Agnes, although she was more like an aunt, being so much older than me. When Agnes went to cat heaven, a year ago, I felt a pain that I had never thought possible. It hurt so much that I didn’t think I would ever recover. But I had Margaret, who loved me very much, and we clung together in our grief. We had both adored Agnes and we missed her with every ounce of our beings, united in our suffering.
   However, I recently learnt how incredibly cruel life could be. One day, a couple of weeks ago, Margaret didn’t get up from her bed. I had no idea what was wrong or what to do, being a cat, so I lay next to her and yowled as loudly as I could. Luckily, a nurse who came to see Margaret once a week was due, and when I heard the doorbell I reluctantly left Margaret’s side and leapt out of the cat flap.
   ‘Oh my, what’s wrong?’ the nurse asked, as I wailed for all I was worth. When she pushed the doorbell again, I pawed at her, gently but insistently trying to convey that something was wrong. She used the spare key and found Margaret’s lifeless body. I stayed with Margaret, knowing she was lost to me, as the nurse made some phone calls. After a while, some men came to take her away and I couldn’t stop yowling. They wouldn’t let me go with Margaret, and that was when I realised that my life, as I knew it, was over. Margaret’s family were called and I yowled some more. I yowled myself hoarse.
   As Jeremy and Linda continued talking, I quietly jumped off the chair and left the house. I prowled around looking for some of the other cats to ask advice from, but it was pretty much tea time so I struggled to find anyone. However, I knew a nice elderly cat called Mavis who lived down the street, so I went to seek her out. I sat outside her cat flap and miaowed loudly. She knew that Margaret had died; she’d seen her being taken away and had found me shortly afterwards pining after her. She was a maternal cat, a bit like Agnes, and she had taken care of me, letting me yowl until I could yowl no more. She had stayed with me, sharing her food and milk with me, until Linda and Jeremy arrived.
   Hearing my call, she came out of the cat flap, and I explained the situation to her.
   ‘They can’t take you?’ she asked, looking at me with sad eyes.
   ‘No, they say they have dogs and, well, I don’t want to live with dogs anyway.’ We both shivered at the thought.
   ‘Who would?’ she said.
   ‘I don’t know what to do,’ I lamented, trying not to cry again. Mavis nestled her body into me. We hadn’t been close until recently, but she was a very caring cat, and I was grateful for her friendship.
   ‘Alfie, don’t let them take you to the shelter,’ she said. ‘I’d take care of you but I don’t think I can. I’m old and tired now and my owner isn’t much younger than Margaret was. You have to be a brave little cat and find yourself a new family.’ She rubbed her neck into mine affectionately.
   ‘But how do I do that?’ I asked. I had never felt so lost or scared.
   ‘I wish I had the answers, but think what you have learnt lately about how fragile life is, and be strong.’
   We rubbed noses, and I knew that I had to leave. I went back to Margaret’s house one last time so I could remember it before I left. I wanted a picture to lock in my memory and take on my journey with me. I hoped it might give me strength. I looked at Margaret’s trinkets, her ‘treasures’ she called them. I looked at the pictures on the wall that had been so familiar to me. I looked at the carpet, worn where I had scratched at it when I was too young to know better. This house was me, and I was it. And now I had no idea what was to become of me.
   I had little appetite but I forced myself to eat the food that Linda had given me (after all I wasn’t sure when I would get to eat next), and then I took one final, lingering look around the home that had been mine; that had always kept me warm and safe. I thought about the lessons I’d learnt. In my four years in this house I had grasped a lot about love, and about loss. I had once been taken care of, but not any longer. I remembered the time I arrived as a tiny kitten. How Agnes hadn’t liked me and had treated me as a threat. How I had won her round, and how Margaret had always treated us as if we were the most important cats in the world. I thought about how lucky I had been; but now my luck had run out. As I mourned the only life that I had known, I felt instinctively that I had to survive, but I had no idea how. I prepared to take a leap into the unknown.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_003.jpg]
   Chapter Two
   With my broken heart, and fearing no reasonable alternative, I set out from the only home I’d ever known. I had no idea where I was going, or how I was going to manage, but I knew that relying on myself, and my limited abilities, would be better than relying on a shelter. And I also knew that a cat like me needed to have a home and love. As I crept off into the dark night, my little body shaking with fear, I tried to find a way to be brave. I knew little but I was certain that I didn’t ever want to be alone again. This cat desperately needed to find a lap, or even a number of laps, to sit on. With a sense of purpose, I tried to muster my courage. I hoped, prayed, that it wouldn’t fail me.
   I started walking, letting my senses guide me. I wasn’t used to prowling the streets in the dark, unwelcoming night, but I could see and I could hear well and kept telling myself that it would be all right. I tried to hear Margaret and Agnes’ voices as I walked the streets, to drive me on.
   The first night was hard– frightening and long. At some point, as the moon shone down, I found a shed at the bottom of someone’s back garden, which was lucky because my legs were hurting and I was exhausted. The door was open, and although it was dusty and full of cobwebs, I was too tired to care. I curled up in a corner on the hard, dirty floor, but somehow I managed to fall fast asleep.
   I was awoken during the night by a loud yowl, and a large black cat loomed over me. I jumped into the air in fright. He stared at me angrily, and although my legs were shaking, I tried to stand my ground.
   ‘What are you doing here?’ he hissed, spitting at me aggressively.
   ‘I just needed to sleep,’ I replied, trying and failing to sound confident. There was no way I could get past him easily, so, trembling, I stood up and tried to look menacing. The cat grinned, an evil grin, and I nearly buckled. He reached out and swiped my head with his claws. I yelped and felt the pain from where he’d scratched me and I wanted to curl into a ball but knew that I had to get away from this vicious cat. He came at me again, claws glinting, brandished at my face, but luckily I was more agile than him. I launched myself towards the door and ran past him, brushing his wiry fur but managing to get outside. He turned and hissed at me again. I spat back then ran as fast as my little legs would take me. At some point, I stopped and breathlessly looked back to find I was alone. I had had my first taste of danger and I knew that I needed to develop a thicker fur if I was going to make it. I used my paw to smooth my coat and tried to ignore the scratch, which still smarted. I realised that I could be fast when I needed to be, and that was something I could use to get myself out of danger. I yelped some more as I walked on, fear flooding through me, but also driving me.I looked into the night sky, at the stars, and wondered, yet again, if Agnes and Margaret could see me, wherever they were. I hoped so, but I didn’t know. I knew very little.
   I was so hungry by the time I felt able to stop again and it was very cold. Used to sitting by Margaret’s fire day after day, this was an alien life to me. I knew that if I needed food I would have to hunt; something I hadn’t had to do very much of in my past and something I wasn’t adept at. I followed my nose and found some mice skulking around the bins outside a big house. Despite my distaste – I usually ate food from a tin, except on special occasions when Margaret gave me fish – I chased one into a corner and went in for the kill. Because I hadn’t been used to hunger like this, it tasted almost delicious to me and it gave me the energy that I needed to continue.
   I wandered on through the night until the day began to dawn, trying to remember that I was still me, Alfie, the playful cat, as I chased my tail and practised my bounding. I hunted a fat fly, but then I remembered I needed to conserve my energy; I didn’t know where my next meal would come from or when I’d get it.
   Still with no idea where I was heading, I came to a big road and realised I would need to cross it. I wasn’t used to roads and traffic; Margaret had lectured me about not going near roads when I was a kitten. It was noisy and scary as cars and vans zoomed past me. I stood on the pavement, my heart pounding, until I saw a gap. I almost closed my eyes and ran, but managed to steady my shaking legs before I did anything stupid. Fearfully, I put one little paw down onto the road, feeling the rumble of traffic as it grew nearer. A horn blared and as I turned to my left I saw an enormous pair of lights bearing down on me. I bolted, running faster than I ever had in my life, and to my horror I felt something brush my tail. I yelped and leapt as far as I could, landing on the pavement. Heart beating, I turned around and saw a car speed past, knowing I had nearly ended up under it. I wondered if I had used up one of my nine lives – I was pretty sure I had. Eventually I caught my breath, again fear was becoming my driving force, and legs like jelly, I walked for a few minutes away from the road, before I collapsed by someone’s front gate.
   After a few minutes, a door opened and a lady came out. She had a dog with her, on a lead. The dog lurched at me, barking wildly, and once again I had to dodge out of harm’s way. The lady yanked the lead and shouted at the dog, who snarled at me. I hissed back.
   I was learning very quickly that the world was a dangerous and hostile place, a million miles away from my home, Agnes and Margaret. I began to wonder if a shelter wouldn’t have been safer after all.
   However, there was no going back. By now I had no idea where I was. When I first set out, I didn’t know exactly where I was going or what would happen to me but I had my hopes. I thought I would have to travel a bit but in the back of my mind, a kind family, perhaps a sweet little girl, would find me and take me to my new home. As I faced daily terrors, sometimes running for my life, and often feeling like I was ready to collapse from hunger, this was the picture I kept in my head.
   By now, I was disorientated, thirsty and tired. The adrenaline that had kept me going was deserting me and being replaced by a heaviness in my limbs.
   I found my way to a back alley, where, if I jumped on fences and balanced like a ballerina, I could make my way along, looking down from high enough to feel safe. I tapped into my energy reserves in order to do so. I spotted a garden with a big bowl of water on a post; Margaret had had one in her garden for birds to drink from. I jumped down and managed to climb up it, so desperate for a drink that I would have climbed the highest mountain. I drank greedily, grateful for the immediate relief it gave me. I swiped some birds away; this was my water now. When I had all but emptied it, I returned to the fences and made my way further and further away from my old life.
   I spent a thankfully uneventful night. I met some other cats but they ignored me, too concerned with their cat calling and mating to pay much heed.
   Most of what I knew about other cats, I had learnt from Agnes, who could hardly move by the time I met her, and the other cats on our street, who were generally friendly, especially Mavis, who had shown me such kindness. I wanted to approach the cats to ask for help, but they looked too busy and I was scared after the black cat incident, so I trotted on carefully.
   The next morning, I felt as if I had come quite a distance. Yet again I was hungry, so I decided that I would try to look my most appealing in the hope that some kindly cat would help me out with food. I happened upon a cat who was basking in the sunshine outside a house with a shiny red door. I tentatively approached and purred.
   ‘Goodness,’ said the cat, who was a rather large lady tabby. ‘You look dreadful.’ I was about to take offence but I remembered that I hadn’t really groomed myself properly since leaving Margaret’s due to the fact I was more concerned with staying alive and out of trouble.
   ‘I’m homeless and hungry,’ I miaowed.
   ‘Come on, I’ll share some of my breakfast with you,’ she offered. ‘But then you’ll have to go. My owner will be home soon and won’t like to find a stray in her house.’ It suddenly struck me that I really was a stray. I had no home, no family, no protection. I was among the unfortunatecats that had to fend for themselves; living in fear, always feeling hungry and tired. Never feeling quite their best; never looking anything near their best. I had now joined their ranks and it felt horrible.
   I gratefully ate and drank and then went on my way, thanking and bidding farewell to the kindly cat. I didn’t even know her name.
   My state of mind reflected my physical being. Grief was such a part of me; causing me physical pain in my heart as I missed Margaret with every fibre of my fur. But I had known love; the love of my owner and my cat sister, and I owed it to them, to their love, to carry on. Now, with food in my tummy, I felt renewed energy as I prepared to do just that.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_004.jpg]
   Chapter Three
   A few days passed, increasing the distance between my old home and wherever I was heading. I met some kind cats, some angry ones, and many mean dogs that delighted in barking at me but thankfully couldn’t get me. I was kept on my toes, literally, as I danced and jumped and ran away, and I could feel my energy depleting all the time. I learnt to fight back when I needed to; although aggression didn’t come naturally to me, it seemed survival did. As I dodged cars, cats and dogs, I was slowly developing a more streetwise persona.
   However I was getting thinner by the day; my once gleaming fur was patchy and I was cold and tired. I barely knew how I was surviving and I had never imagined that life could ever be like this. I was sadder than I had ever been and more lonely than I thought possible. When I slept, I had nightmares, and when I woke, I remembered my predicament and cried. It was a horrible time and sometimes I just wanted it all to be over. I wasn’t sure how much longer I could carry on.
   I was learning that the streets could be mean and unforgiving. Physically and mentally it was taking its toll on me and I was beginning to feel so downhearted that it was a struggle to put one paw in front of the other.
   The weather reflected my mood. It was cold and raining, and I felt a chill in my bones as my fur never seemed to be fully dry. In the time that I had been homeless– searching for my future, the kind family – the sweet little girl hadn’t materialised. No one had come to my rescue so far and I was beginning to think that no one would. To say I was feeling sorry for myself was an understatement.
   Once again, I came to a main road. Roads still filled me with fear; I’d got better at crossing them, but I still felt as if I was taking my life in my paws every time I stepped off a kerb. I had learnt to take my time when crossing, even if I had to wait for a very long time. So I sat, head moving side to side until there was a break in the traffic that made it safe enough. Despite this I still ran as fast as I could and ended up breathless on the other side. Unfortunately, I had been so busy concentrating on getting across the road that I hadn’t noticed the small fat dog standing on the other side of the road. He squared up to me, snarling, showing his sharp teeth and dribbling saliva. Unfortunately there was no lead or owner in sight.
   ‘Hisssss,’ I replied, trying to deter him, although I was terrified. He was so close to me I could smell him. He barked at me and suddenly lunged forward. Despite my fatigue I leapt back and started running, but I could feel his breath on my tail. Increasing my speed I dared to look back and could see him coming after me, snapping at my heels. For such a fat dog he was quick and I could hear him barking furiously as I ran. I rounded a corner and came upon an alleyway. I swerved and sprinted down it as fast as my legs would take me. After what felt like miles I slowed and hearing only silence I looked back; thankfully the dog was nowhere to be seen. I’d managed to escape.
   Heart pounding, I slowed my pace, and made my way down the alley which led to some allotments where people grew vegetables. As it was still pouring with rain there were only a couple of people about, so despite my dampness and fatigue, I strode confidently to find shelter. One of the allotments had a shed with a door that was slightly ajar. I was too tired to worry about what might lie in wait inside, and gently nudged the door open with my nose. I was so cold and insecure, I feared that if I didn’t find somewhere dry to rest soon I would become very sick.
   I slunk into the shed and was grateful to see a blanket at one end. It was musty and a bit rough; it certainly wasn’t the luxury I had been used to in my old life but at that moment in time it was like a palace to me. I curled up and tried to rub my fur dry as best I could, and despite being half-starved, I couldn’t face going to find any food.
   I could hear the rain hitting the shed as I cried, silently to myself. I had always been a very spoilt cat, I saw that now. If I thought of all the things I took for granted when I lived with Margaret, it was a very long list. I knew I would be fed, loved, warm and cared for. I spent cold days sitting by a warm fire in Margaret’s living room. I spent cold days sunning myself by the window. I was mollycoddled and my life was one of pure luxury. It was funny how it was only now it was gone that I realised how lucky I had been.
   And now what was to become of me? When Mavis had told me to leave I really didn’t foresee what would happen. I didn’t think I would be here, wondering if I could carry on. I really wasn’t sure that I could continue. Was my journey going to end here in this shed, on a smelly blanket? Was that my fate? I hoped not, yet I didn’t know what the alternative was. I knew thatfeeling sorry for yourself was wrong but I couldn’t help it. I missed my old life so badly and I just didn’t know what would become of me.
   I must have fallen asleep because I was awoken by a pair of eyes staring at me; I blinked. There was a cat stood in front of me, as black as night, eyes shining like torches.
   ‘I don’t mean any harm,’ I said immediately, thinking that if she wanted to fight I would let her finish me off.
   ‘I thought I smelt a cat. What are you doing here?’ she asked, although not aggressively.
   ‘I wanted to rest. A dog chased me and I just ended up here. It was warm and dry and so …’
   ‘Are you a street cat?’ she asked.
   ‘I’m not supposed to be but I guess I am at the moment,’ I replied sadly. She arched her back.
   ‘Look, this is my hunting ground. I’m a street cat and I like it that way. I get the rich pickings of the creatures that come here looking for food - mice, birds you know, anyway, I kind of call this my patch. I just wanted to check that you didn’t think you could take it over.’
   ‘Of course not!’ I was indignant. ‘I just needed shelter from the rain.’
   ‘You get used to the rain eventually,’ she said. I wanted to say, ‘perish the thought,’ but I didn’t want to upset my new comrade. I slowly stood up and moved toward her.
   ‘Does it get easier?’ I asked, wondering if this really was my future.
   ‘I don’t know, but you get accustomed to it.’ Her eyes darkened. ‘Anyway, come with me I’ll let you hunt with me and I’ll show you where to get a drink but then, in the morning you move on OK?’ I agreed her terms.
   I ate and drank but I didn’t feel better. As I curled up on the blanket again, and my new friend left me, I prayed for a miracle because as things stood I didn’t think I would come out of this journey alive.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_005.jpg]
   Chapter Four
   I set off again the next morning as promised, but I felt despondent. As a few more days passed I experienced a mass of contradictions. One day I would feel I couldn’t carry on; the weather, the hunger and the loneliness would get to the core of me. But then the next I would push myself further, telling myself I owed it to Margaret and Agnes not to give up. I would see-saw between feeling hopeless in my quest or determined not to fail.
   I got by with food and drink, and learnt to be more self-sufficient. I even began to get used to the weather although I still hated the rain. I hunted slightly more effectively, although I didn’t enjoy it, but I had discovered how to be a little bit tougher. I was just not convinced I really could be as resilient as I needed to be. Not yet.
   One night, feeling in a more positive frame of mind, I came across a group of humans. They were all huddled around a large doorway; there was lots of cardboard and it smelt very bad. They all had bottles in their hands and some of them had almost as much fur on their faces as me.
   ‘It’s a cat,’ one of the furry men slurred, taking a drink. He waved his bottle towards me; the stench sent me reeling back. They laughed as I started slowly moving backwards, not sure what danger I was facing, if any. The man who laughed then threw a bottle at me, I dodged it but only just as it smashed to pieces next to me.
   ‘It’d make a nice hat to keep me warm,’ another laughed, slightly menacingly, I thought. I crept further back.
   ‘We ain’t got no food, bugger off,’ a third said, unkindly.
   ‘We could skin ’im for a hat then eat ’im,’ another said, laughing. I widened my eyes in horror and backed away. Then, from nowhere, a cat appeared.
   ‘Follow me,’ he hissed, and I ran after him down the street. Thankfully, just as I thought I couldn’t run any more, we stopped.
   ‘Who were they?’ I asked, breathlessly.
   ‘Neighbourhood drunks. They don’t have homes. You should keep away from them.’
   ‘But I don’t have a home either,’ I cried, and I felt like yowling again.
   ‘I’m sorry to hear that. But you should still keep out of their way. They aren’t exactly friendly.’
   ‘What’s drunk?’ I asked, feeling very much like a little cat with no idea about the world yet again.
   ‘It’s something humans do. They drink stuff and it changes them. Not milk or water. Look, come with me. I can sneak you some food and milk tonight and find you somewhere safe to sleep.’
   ‘You’re very kind,’ I purred.
   ‘I’ve been where you are; I was homeless for a while,’ the cat said, and then stalked off, gesturing with his paw for me to follow him.
   His name was Button, which he said was a silly name for a cat but he had a young owner who said he was‘cute as a button’, whatever that means. The house we went to was in darkness and I was so happy to be inside, somewhere warm and safe. It reminded me that I desperately needed to find a home before long. I told Button my story.
   ‘That’s sad,’ he said. ‘But you have learnt, like me, that one owner isn’t always enough. I visit another house on my street sometimes.’
   ‘Really?’ I said, intrigued.
   ‘I think of myself as being a doorstep cat,’ he said.
   ‘What’s that?’ I was curious.
   ‘Well, you live somewhere most of the time, but you go to other doorsteps until they let you in. They don’t always, but I have another house, and although I don’t stay there, if anything happens I feel I have options.’ As I questioned him he went on to explain that a doorstep cat got fed multiple times, by multiple families, they got petted and fussed over and enjoyed a high level of security.
   Like me he had hated being homeless; and unlike me the young child had come to his rescue although he said that he’d engineered it. When he found his new family he’d looked as helpless as possible, ensuring they took pity and adopted him.
   ‘So you just looked like you needed feeding and grooming?’ I asked, ears pricked in interest.
   ‘Well I really did look like that. But you know, I got lucky, I pleaded for help and someone took me in. I’ll help you if you like.’
   ‘Oh I would love that,’ I replied.
   He let me curl up with him in his basket, talking late into the night. And although I wouldn’t get much sleep, because I needed to leave early the next morning before Button’s owners woke, I felt safe for the first time since leaving Margaret’s. I also had a plan forming in my mind: I would make an excellent doorstep cat.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_006.jpg]
   Chapter Five
   I left Button’s house the next morning. I felt sad about going, after the safety of the night, but at least he’d advised me where to go, pointing me in the direction of the nicer streets in the area. He suggested I head west, towards the area that was popular with families, until I found the street that felt right to me. I had to trust my instincts and he seemed to think I would know when I had arrived. With a good sleep and a full belly I headed off in the direction he’d suggested, dodging danger and following my nose.
   I was more optimistic but life after Button didn’t suddenly change overnight. There were still days where I had to keep my wits about me and more still where I felt hungry and tired, having to keep going when my legs shook with exhaustion and my fur stuck to my body with the rain. I survived but it was a long, hard journey. I just kept tellingmyself it would be worth it in the end.
   And, finally I arrived at a lovely street and as Button had suggested, I knew immediately it would give me what I needed. I didn’t know how exactly, but I knew; I just knew, that I belonged here. I sat by a sign that said ‘Edgar Road’ and I licked my lips. For the first time since leaving Margaret’s, I felt that everything was going to be all right.
   I immediately liked Edgar Road. It was a long street with many different types of houses; Victorian terraced houses, modern boxes, larger houses and some buildings divided into flats. What I especially liked was that there were a number of‘For Sale’ and ‘To Let’ signs. Button had explained that these signs meant that new people would soon be arriving. And, I strongly believed, what new people needed most of all, was a cat like me.
   In the next few days, I met some of the neighbourhood cats. When I told them what I was up to, they insisted on helping me. I soon discovered that, on the whole, the Edgar Road cats were a pretty nice bunch. After all, it was important to me to live in a neighbourhood with good cat neighbours. There were a couple of‘Alpha Toms’ and one pretty girl cat who was particularly unkind to everyone, but apart from that they were friendly, and they shared their food and drink with me when I was at my most needy.
   During the day I spent my time speaking to the other cats, getting as much information as I could out of them, and casing out the empty houses, searching for my potential homes. At night, I would go hunting, just to keep myself fed.
   One evening, after I’d been at Edgar Road for just under a week, a particularly mean Tom found me sitting outside one of the empty houses that I was keeping an eye on.
   ‘You don’t live here. Maybe it’s time you left,’ he hissed at me.
   ‘I’m staying,’ I hissed back, trying to be brave as I faced him. He was bigger than me and of course, I was still not at my best. After all I’d been through, I felt as if I had no more fight inside me but I couldn’t give up. I was suddenly distracted by a noise, and I looked up to see a bird swooping quite low overhead. The Tom took his chance and swiped at me with his paw, scratching me just above my eye.
   I yowled. It really hurt and I quickly felt blood. I spat at the Tom as he loomed in, looking as if he was going to bite me. I vowed to always keep my eye on him in future.
   A brightly striped cat called Tiger lived next door to this empty house, and she and I had become friendly. She suddenly appeared, and stood between me and the Tom.
   ‘Get lost, Bandit,’ she hissed. Bandit looked as though he might fight, but after a while, he turned on his heel and stalked off. ‘You’re bleeding,’ she said.
   ‘He caught me unawares, I was distracted,’ I said, haughtily. ‘I could have taken him easily.’ Tiger grinned.
   ‘Look Alfie, I am sure you could, but you’re still delicate. Anyway, come with me and I’ll sneak you some food.’
   As I followed her, I knew she would be my best cat friend on the street.
   ‘You don’t look very good,’ Tiger commented as I was gratefully eating. I tried not to feel affronted.
   ‘I know,’ I replied, sadly. It was true. By the time I arrived in Edgar Road I was thinner than I had ever been. My fur was certainly no longer shiny and I was tired from living outside and from malnourishment. I had no idea how long it had taken me to get there, but it felt like a long time. The weather had changed; it was getting warmer and the nights were lighter. It felt as if the sun was getting ready to come out.
   As I became friends with Tiger, I was also becoming accustomed to my new road. I had prowled extensively, so I knew the street as well as the back of my paw. I knew where every cat lived and if they were nice or not. I knew where the mean dogs were, and after a fair few escapes from such dogs, I knew which houses to avoid at all costs. I had balanced on every fence and wall in Edgar Road. I knew it as my new home, or homes, to be more accurate.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_007.jpg]
   Chapter Six
   I sat and watched as two burly men unloaded the last of the furniture from the removal van. I was, so far, pleased with what I had seen: a comfortable looking blue sofa; large floor cushions; a fancy upholstered armchair which looked as if it might be an antique, not that I was an expert. I had seen lots more being taken off the van; wardrobes, chests of drawers and lots of sealed boxes, but I was mostly interested in soft furnishings.
   Flicking my tail in satisfaction, I felt my whiskers rising as I grinned. It looked as if I had found my first potential new home; 78 Edgar Road.
   While the removals men took a break and were drinking out of plastic flask cups, I seized the opportunity to sneak into the house. Despite my curiosity, I first made my way straight through to check out the back door. Although I had been in all of the gardens in the street, and felt confident that this house did, in fact, possess a cat flap, I still needed to be sure. It did. I purred with pleasure at my cleverness and slid through it, deciding to hide out in the garden.
   After chasing my shadow around in the tiny garden, and looking for flies to torment, I shivered with excitement and decided to groom myself thoroughly one last time. I was brimming with expectation as I made my way back into the house and anticipated how nice it would be to be a domestic cat again. How I yearned for a lap to sit on, milk to be given to me and food aplenty. Simple needs but, as I had learnt, not needs to be taken for granted. Nothing could ever be taken for granted again.
   I wasn’t a silly cat. My journey, and those I’d met along the way, had taught me many things. There was no way I was going to put all my whiskers in one basket ever again. It was a lesson I’d learnt the hard way. The worst way. Some of my peers were either too trusting or too lazy, but I had discovered that I couldn’t afford to be either. As much as I wanted to be a loyal cat with a loyal owner, it was just too precarious. I couldn’t ever be in the situation I was in before. I couldn’t bear to be alone ever again.
   I felt my fur stand on end as I pushed the terror of the past weeks out of my head and instead turned my attention to my new owner. I hoped that they would be as nice as their soft furnishings.
   As I padded around the house I noticed the sky begin to turn dusky and I sensed the temperature drop. I wondered why someone would move their furniture into the house, but not themselves; it didn’t make sense. I started to feel a little panicked for the owner I hadn’t yet met. But then I told myself to relax and gave my whiskers a lick to calm myself down. I needed to look my best for when the people arrived at their new home; I was getting far too anxious.
   The problem was that I had spent too long as a homeless cat, and I couldn’t face it any more. Just as I felt as if I might start fretting again, I heard the front door open. I immediately pricked up my ears and stretched out my body. It was time to go and meet my first new family. I plastered my most charming smile on my face.
   ‘I know Mum, but I couldn’t help it,’ I heard a female voice say. There was a pause. ‘I couldn’t be here because the blasted car broke down just two hours into the journey and I have just spent the last three hours with a very talkative RAC man, who, quite frankly, nearly sent me mad.’ Another pause. Her voice sounded nice although she was clearly exasperated, I thought, as I crept nearer. ‘They did. It looks like all the furniture is here, and, as I asked, the keys were posted through the front door.’ Pause. ‘Edgar Road isn’t the ghetto, Mum, I think it’ll be fine. Anyway, I’ve just walked through the door to my new home after the day from hell, so I’ll call you tomorrow.’
   I rounded the corner and came face to face with a woman. She looked fairly young, although I wasn’t very good at judging age; all I could say was that her face wasn’t full of wrinkles, like Margaret’s. She was quite tall, very thin and had untidy dark-blonde hair and sad blue eyes. My first impression of her was that she gave me a nice feeling, and her sad eyes drew me to her strongly. My cat’s instinct told me that she needed me as much as I needed her. I, like most cats, didn’t judge humans on appearance; we read personality, and normally cats have a special talent for knowing who is good and who is bad. ‘She’ll do nicely,’ I immediately thought feeling pleased.
   ‘Who are you?’ she said, her voice suddenly soft; the type of voice so many people reserve for pets and babies as if we are stupid. I would have given her a disdainful look, but I needed to be charming. So instead I gave her one of my best grins. She knelt down beside me and I purred, moving slowly towards her, gently brushing her leg. Oh yes, I knew how to flirt when I needed to.
   ‘You poor thing, you look half starved. And your fur, it’s all patchy, as if you’ve been fighting. Have you been fighting?’ She sounded very tender and I purred in agreement. I had only seen my reflection in water lately but I knew from Tiger that I didn’t look my best. I just hoped that it didn’t put her off as I nestled into her legs again.
   ‘Oh, you are sweet. What’s your name?’ She looked at the silver disc hanging from my neck. ‘Alfie. Well, hello, Alfie.’ She gently picked me up and stroked my ‘patchy’ fur. It felt heavenly after all this time. I felt as if I was bonding with the lady, learning her smell, transferringmine and reminding me of my past, my kittenhood. I felt myself relax in a way I had only dreamt of recently.
   Once again I purred my best purr and snuggled into her.‘Well, Alfie, I’m Claire and although I’m pretty sure a cat didn’t come with the house, let’s find you something to eat. I’ll call your owner in a bit.’ I grinned again. She could try all she wanted, but the number on the disc wouldn’t work. I triumphantly strode next to her, tail upright, my way of saying a proper ‘hello’ to my new friend, as she went back to the front door, picked up two carrier bags and carried them into the kitchen.
   As she unpacked her shopping, I looked properly at my new feeding area. The kitchen was small but modern. It had white shiny units and wooden work surfaces. It was clean and uncluttered. Mind you, I reminded myself, no one lived here properly yet. In my old house, which it still pained me to think of, the kitchen had been very old fashioned and cluttered. It was dominated by a huge sideboard and there were decorative plates everywhere. I accidentally broke one when I was very young. Margaret had been so upset that I didn’t go near them again. However, I doubted that Claire had any decorative plates. She didn’t look the type.
   ‘Here you go,’ she said triumphantly, laying down a bowl that she had unpacked and poured some milk into. She then opened a packet and laid some smoked salmon on a plate. ‘Oh, what a glorious welcome,’ I thought. Obviously I hadn’t expected her to have cat food, but at the same time I hadn’t imagined getting such a treat. I would have been happy with anything today, even just milk. I decided there and then that I liked Claire. As I ate, she picked a glass out of the same box that had contained the bowl and pulled a bottle of wine out of the carrier bag. She poured a glass, drank it greedily and then poured another. I raised my eyes in surprise. She must have been very thirsty.
   I finished eating, and rubbed against Claire’s legs in thanks. She seemed a bit lost but then she looked at me.
   ‘Oh dear, I need to call your owners,’ she said, as if she’d forgotten. I miaowed to tell her I didn’t have any, but she didn’t seem to understand. She crouched down and looked at my silver disc. She punched the numbers into her phone and waited. Although I knew no one would answer, I still felt nervous. ‘That’s odd,’ she said. ‘The phone line is dead; there must be a fault. Don’t worry, I’m not going to kick you out. Stay here tonight and I’ll try again tomorrow.’
   I purred very loudly in thanks, and felt immensely relieved.
   ‘But, if you’re going to stay for the night, you need a bath,’ she said, picking me up. I pricked up my ears in horror. A bath? I was a cat, I bathed myself. I cried, as if to object. ‘Sorry, Alfie, but you smell terrible,’ she added. ‘Now, I’ll just go and unpack some towels and thenwe’ll sort you out.’
   I resisted the urge to jump out of her arms and run away again. I hated water and I knew what a bath meant, having had one at Margaret’s a long time ago when I came home covered in mud. It was an awful experience, although, I reasoned, not as bad as being homeless, so I decided to once again be a brave cat.
   She put me in front of a big mirror in her bedroom while she went to find the towels. I looked and I yelped in surprise. If I didn’t know better, I would have thought that I was looking at another animal; I looked even worse than I had initially felt. My fur was patchy, I looked so thin that I could see my bones poking through and despite my best efforts at cleaning myself, Claire was right, I looked dirty. I felt suddenly sad; it seemed that since Margaret’s death I had changed both inside and out.
   Claire fetched me and took me to the bathroom where she ran the water and then put me gently in the bath. I screeched and wriggled a bit.
   ‘Sorry, Alfie, but you need a good wash.’ She looked a bit confused as she held a bottle in one of her hands. ‘It’s natural shampoo so it should be OK. Oh God, I don’t know, I’ve never had a cat before.’ She looked a bit upset. ‘And you’re not my cat. I hope your owner isn’t tooworried.’ I saw a tear escape out of her eye. ‘This isn’t what was supposed to happen.’ I wanted to comfort her; she clearly needed it, but I couldn’t because I was still in the bath and I felt like I resembled a giant soap sud.
   After the bath, which seemed to go on forever, she wrapped me in a towel and dried me off.
   When I finally felt dry again, I followed Claire to the living room, where she slumped onto the newly delivered sofa and I jumped up next to her. It was every bit as comfortable as I had hoped, and she didn’t tell me off or try to push me down. Like polite strangers, I sat on one side, she on the other. She picked up her glass, took a smaller sip, and sighed. I studied her as she looked around the room as if seeing it for the first time. There were boxes that needed unpacking, a television that satin the middle of the room and a small dining table and chairs tucked into a corner. Apart from the sofa, it wasn’t organised and it wasn’t really home yet. As if Claire had read my thoughts, she took another sip of her drink and then she burst into tears.
   ‘What the hell have I done?’ she said, crying noisily.
   Despite the noise, I was upset at how distraught she had suddenly become, but I knew what I had to do. It was as if there was a reason I was here now; I felt a sense of purpose. Perhaps I could help Claire as much as she could help me? I moved across the sofa and nestled into her, laying my little head gently on her lap. She automatically stroked me, and although she was still crying, I was offering her the comfort that I somehow knew she needed and she was doing the same for me. You see, I understood, because at that moment I knew with certainty in my heart that we were kindred spirits.
   I had come home again.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_008.jpg]
   Chapter Seven
   It had been a week since I’d been living with Claire and we had settled into quite a comfortable routine, although not an entirely healthy one. She cried a lot and I snuggled a lot, which suited me just fine. I loved to cuddle, and I had a lot of lost time to make up for. I just wished I could do something to stop Claire from crying so much. It was clear that she needed my help and I vowed I would give it in any way I could.
   Claire had tried to phone the number on my disc again, then she’d phoned the telephone company and discovered it had been disconnected. She assumed I’d been abandoned, and that seemed to make her like me even more. She cried over it and said that she couldn’t understand how anyone could do that to me. She also said that she totally understood, as it had happened to her, although I was yet to discover the details. But I knew that I had a home with her. She started buying me cat food and special milk. She got me a litter tray, not that I really liked using them, and she was talking, luckily only talking, about taking me to the vet. Vets tended to poke around where they were not wanted, but she hadn’t called them so far, so paws crossed she’d forget about that.
   Despite the almost constant crying, Claire was very efficient. She managed to get all her furniture arranged and her boxes unpacked in only a couple of days. She organised the house and it quickly looked like a home. Pictures were hung on the walls, cushions scattered literally everywhere, and suddenly warmth flooded into every room; I had chosen well.
   However, as I said, it wasn’t a happy home. Claire had been unpacking and I had watched her, trying my best to work out her story. She arranged lots of photographs in the front room, telling me who was in them; her mum and dad, pictures of herself as a child, her younger brother, friends and extended family. For a while she was animated and happy, and I rewarded her positivity by brushing up against her legs the way she told me she liked. I did this a lot for her; after all, I needed her to love me so I wouldn’t have to go back to the streets again. I needed to love her, too, although I was finding this increasingly easy to do.
   One evening, she unpacked a photo which she didn’t tell me about. It was a picture of her in a white dress, holding hands with a man who looked very smart. I’d learnt enough about humans to know that this was what they called a ‘wedding photo’, when two people joined together and said they would only mate with each other – something this cat certainly didn’t understand. She sank into the sofa, clutching the photo against her chest, and started sobbing loudly. I sat next to her, giving her my equivalent of a cry, which was a loud yowl, but she didn’t seem to take any notice of me. But then I started yowling in earnest; like Claire, I couldn’t stop, as my loss flooded my memory. Although I didn’t know if the man in the suit had left her, or died the way my Margaret had, I knew then that she really was on her own. Just as I had been. We sat side by side, her crying, me yowling, at the top of our voices.
   After a couple more days, Claire left early in the morning, saying that she had to go to work. She looked a bit better, as she put on a smart outfit and brushed her hair. She even had some colour to her face, although I wasn’t sure it was exactly natural. I was also beginning to look better, even in a few short days. My fur was beginning to even out a bit and I was putting on weight again, now that I was eating so much and exercising so little. As we stood side by side, looking in Claire’s big mirror, I thought wemade a very cute couple. Or we had the potential to be, at the very least.
   But although Claire left food for me, I missed her company when she was at work and felt sad to be alone again. I had Tiger of course and we spent time together, our friendship growing as we chased flies, went for short strolls and basked in the sun in her back garden, but that was my cat friendship; I knew that more than anything now I needed humans I could rely on.
   When Claire was out at work, it brought back unwelcome memories and made me think that it was time to carry on with my plan. If I was going to ensure that I was never on my own again, I would need more than one home. That was the sad fact of life.
   I’d seen a ‘Sold’ sign go up outside number 46, at about the same time that one had been erected outside Claire’s house and I’d been scoping both, but of course Claire had arrived first. However, I’d noticed that 46 was now also occupied. This house was just far enough apart from Claire’s to give me a short walk. It was on the part of the road that had the larger houses – the ‘posh’ bit, as I had been told by the cats that lived here and who seemed very proud and a little bit boastful of the fact. It looked like it would be a good place to live too, for at least part of the time.
   Edgar Road was an unusual road; because of the different types of houses, there was a real difference in the types of people who lived there. The house I had lived in with Margaret, the only house I had ever known, was a small house on a very tiny street– completely different to some of the huge houses that lined the far end of the road.
   Claire’s house was medium sized, and this house – number 46 – was among the best. It was bigger than Claire’s house; taller and wider, and the windows were large and imposing. I could imagine myself sitting on a windowsill looking out of one of them quite happily. As it was a big house, I assumedthat a family would be living there and I quite liked the idea of being a family cat too. Now, don’t get me wrong, I liked Claire very much and had grown extremely fond of her. I had no intention of abandoning her, but I needed to have more than one home – just to make sure I didn’t end up alone again.
   It was dawn when I turned my attention to number 46. A very slick car with only two seats was parked outside, which worried me, as that didn’t seem to be appropriate for a family. But still, I had already made my decision, so I wanted to investigate further. I made my way round to the back of the house where I found, to my delight, that there was a cat flap waiting for me.
   I found myself in a very smart room with a washing machine, dryer and huge fridge freezer. It loomed over me, like a giant, making a loud humming noise that hurt my ears. I pushed through an open door and walked into an enormous kitchen, which was dominated by a large dining table. I felt as if I’d struck gold; a table that big would definitely need lots of children around it, and everyone knew that children loved cats. I’d be spoilt. I felt my excitement grow; I really wanted to be spoilt.
   Just as I was dreaming of all the food, games and cuddles I’d get, a woman and a man entered the room.
   ‘I didn’t know you had a cat,’ she said, screeching slightly. The pitch of her voice was quite high, a bit like a mouse. I was disappointed to see that she didn’t look at all motherly; she wore a very tight dress with shoes that were almost higher than me. I wondered how on earth she managed to breathe or walk. She also looked like she hadn’t seen any grooming in a while. Now, I’m not a judgemental cat as a general rule, but I pride myself on always taking care of my appearance. I started to clean my paws and lick down my fur in the hope that she’d take the hint.
   Her voice was like the woman in one of the soap operas I used to watch with Margaret.EastEnders, I think it was called.
   I blinked at the man to say‘hello’ but he didn’t blink back.
   ‘I don’t,’ he replied in a cold voice. I looked at him. He was tall with dark hair and quite a handsome face, but he didn’t look very friendly and as he looked me over, he began to seem a bit cross.
   ‘I moved in a couple of days ago and only just noticed that there’s a bloody cat flap which I’ll have to block up before all the scraggy neighbourhood cats take up residence here.’ He glared at me, as if to convey that he was talking about me. I shrank into myself defensively.
   I couldn’t believe my ears. This man was horrible and it was a huge disappointment that there were no children around. There were no toys in the kitchen anyway, and these two didn’t seem to be capable of looking after a cat or a child. It looked as if I had got it very wrong. So much for a cat’s intuition.
   ‘Oh, Jonathan,’ the lady said. ‘Don’t be so mean. He’s a cute little thing. And he might be hungry.’ I instantly regretted my unkind thoughts; this lady might look like a mess but she was kind. My hope began to rise.
   ‘I know very little about cats and I don’t care to know more,’ he replied, sounding haughty. ‘But I do know that if you give them food they’ll come back, so let’s not go there. Anyway, I have work to do. I’ll show you out.’
   The woman looked as upset as I felt, as Jonathan led her to the door. I curled myself up, trying to look my youngest and cutest for his return. But instead of melting, as I expected, he picked me up and threw– literally, threw – me out of the front door. I landed on my feet, so luckily I was unhurt.
   ‘New house, new start, not a new bloody cat,’ he said, as he slammed the door in my face.
   I shook myself off, mortally offended. How dare that man treat me like that? I also felt sorry for the woman he threw out. I hoped he hadn’t manhandled her in the same way.
   I suppose that should have been the end of my attempt to make a home out of number 46, but then, I’m not a cat to give up easily. I couldn’t believe that the man, Jonathan, was as horrible as he seemed. Using my cat senses, I got the feeling that he was more miserable than mean. After all, when the lady left, he was clearly alone, and I knew all about how hideous that could be.
   I rushed back to Claire’s to see her before she went to work. I could tell she’d been crying, because she was putting lots of stuff on her face to hide it. When she’d finished making herself look nice (which took her much longer than it took me), she fed and petted me, before grabbing her bag and leaving the house again. I walked her to the door, rubbing myself against her legs, purring and trying to convey that I was there for her.
   And wishing that there was more I could do to make her feel better.
   ‘Alfie, what would I do without you?’ she rewarded me by saying, before she left. I preened myself. After being horribly rejected by Jonathan, it was nice to be appreciated. I was falling in love with this sad young lady that I somehow knew I needed to help. People accuse us cats of being self-centred and egotistical but that is often far from the case. I was a cat who wanted to aid those in need. I was a kind, loving type of cat with a very special new mission to help people.
   I should have left Jonathan and number 46 alone, but something drew me back. My Margaret used to say that angry people were really just unhappy people, and she was the wisest person I’d ever met. When I first moved in with her, Agnes was very angry and Margaret said that it was because she was worried I would take her place. Agnes confirmed this, when she thawed towards me. I learnt then that anger and unhappiness were fine basket mates.
   So I returned to number 46. The car was absent from the front so the coast was clear. Feeling brave, I went through the cat flap and took a look around. I’d been right, the house was big and looked as if it should contain a family but, on closer inspection, it was a manly space. There were no soft touches, no floral patterns, no pink. It was all gleaming surfaces, glass and chrome. His sofa was the sort that I’d seen in some of the smart lookingfurniture shop windows I’d passed on my travels; metal and cream, which would never suit children – or cats, for that matter. I walked across the sofa, back and forth a few times, feeling satisfied. My paws were clean though, so I wasn’t being that naughty – I just wanted to test it out. I made my way upstairs, where I found four bedrooms; two had beds, one was an office, and the last was full of boxes. This house had no personal touches. No happy photos, nothing to suggest that anyone lived there apart from the furniture. It seemed as cold as the big, scary fridge freezer.
   I decided that this Jonathan man would be something of a challenge. After fending for myself for so long, I knew what I was capable of. This man clearly didn’t like me, or any cat for that matter, but that wasn’t a new experience for me. As I thought of Agnes again, her near-black face popped into my head and made me smile. I missed her so much, it was like there was a part of me missing.
   Agnes was the opposite to me in every way; a very gentle old cat. She would spend most of her time sitting in the window on a special cushion watching the world go by.
   When I arrived, a playful bundle of fluff, she immediately took umbrage.
   ‘If you think you’re staying in my house, you can think again,’ she hissed at me when we first met. She tried to attack me a couple of times but I was too fast for her, and Margaret would chastise her before making even more of a fuss of me, giving me treats and buying me toys. After a while,Agnes decided that she would reluctantly accept me as long as I didn’t bother her, and slowly, I charmed her and won her round. By the time the vet said that she had to go to cat heaven, we were family and we loved each other. I felt a physical pain as I remembered how Agnes would groom me, just as my mother had done when I was born.
   If I could get around the intimidating Agnes, then surely Jonathan would be cat’s play?
   After stalking round his house wondering what he would do with all that space, I decided that I would go out and get him a gift. Despite the fact that hunting wasn’t my favourite pastime, I wanted to make friends with him and this was the only way I knew how.
   My cat comrades from my time on the streets had given me mixed messages. Some of them took their gifts in constantly, despite the fact that at times, it made their owners angry. Others, like me, were smarter about when it was appropriate. It was, after all, our way of showing we cared. And I presumed that Jonathan was a man who liked to hunt, he seemed quite like an Alpha Tom, so I was pretty sure he would appreciate a gift. It would show him that we had something in common.
   I called for Tiger and asked if she wanted to join me.
   ‘I was sleeping. Why can’t you be a normal cat and hunt at night?’ she sighed, although she reluctantly agreed to come with me.
   She was right, cats normally hunted at night, but in my time on the streets I had learnt that it was also possible to find prey during the day which was my preference. I started prowling, and it didn’t take long for me to locate a juicy mouse. I crouched down low ready to pounce and then I quickly went in for the kill. The mouse ran one way then the other so I had difficulty trapping it with my paw. I flicked this way and that as it continued to elude me.
   ‘You are such a terrible hunter,’ Tiger laughed as she stood back watching.
   ‘You could help me,’ I hissed but she laughed again. Finally, just before I ran out of patience the mouse ran out of energy. I pounced again and at last I had it in my paws.
   ‘Do you want to come with me to take it to Jonathan’s?’ I asked.
   ‘Yes, I want to see your second home,’ Tiger replied.
   I decided that as I wanted Jonathan to like me, I wouldn’t decapitate the mouse, and so I carefully carried it in my mouth through the cat flap. I deposited it by the front door, so there was no way that he could miss it. I briefly wished that I could write, because if I could, I’d leave a note saying, ‘Welcome to your new home,’ but instead I could only hope he would get my lovely message.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_009.jpg]
   Chapter Eight
   I was late getting back to number 78, because Tiger and I had been lurking in the bushes, playing with falling leaves and waiting for Jonathan to get back. But as it got later, the sky began to darken and I started to get hungry. Due to my sacrifice of the mouse, I hadn’t eaten since breakfast so, reluctantly, I made my way back to Claire.
   I let myself in through the cat flap and found her in the kitchen.
   ‘Hello, Alfie,’ she said, bending down to give me a stroke. ‘Where have you been today? she asked. I replied with a purr. She reached into the cupboard and brought down a tin of cat food. She opened a carton of special cat milk.
   ‘Don’t mind if I do,’ I thought, as I tucked in. When I’d eaten, I cleaned my whiskers thoroughly, while I watched Claire tidy up. I was learning more about Claire every day. Despite the fact that she seemed depressed, she was also very clean and tidy – that explained my horrible bath. She wouldn’t even leave an empty glass on the side in the kitchen. Everything was washed up, and put away. She was the same with her clothes. The house was immaculate, and she cleaned all surfaces frequently. More than was necessary, I thought. She had bought me special bowls to eat from and she’dplace them on the floor for me, but when I’d finished dining, she would scoop them up and clean them immediately, and then she would spray and clean the floor. I was a pretty fastidious cat when it came to personal hygiene, but being with Claire made me clean myself more than usual; I didn’t want her to think I wasn’t worthy of her spotless house. And I especially didn’t want another bath.
   Every day when she got back from work, which she had told me was in a big office, doing something called‘Marketing’, she would shower – she was always moaning about the dirt in London – then she would change into pyjamas, pour herself something to drink, and go and sit on the sofa. She would then normally start to cry. It had become a set routine in the short time that I’d been here.
   She did eat, but very little, and I couldn’t help but notice that she was really quite bony, the way I had been when I’d first arrived here. I knew I needed to try to get her to eat more food but I had no idea how. She seemed to drink quite a lot from a fancy glass, though. She always kept a bottle of wine in the fridge and she would empty it almost nightly. It made me think of the homeless people who had threatened to eat me. I know she wasn’t like them, but Button had explained the human concept of being drunk and I think Claire spent most nights a little bit so. After all, it was usually after a couple of these drinks that she would start crying. And although I would always comfort her when she did this, whatever I did, I couldn’t get her to stop. It made me sad, because all I wanted to do was to make her smile or at least put a stop to her tears.
   So far, I had tried playing‘hiding behind the curtains’, to make her laugh, but she had acted as if I was invisible. I even fell off the windowsill once in my attempt to cheer her up and she didn’t notice that either, despite the fact that I yelped in pain. I tried crying with her; purring, nuzzling into her with my little warm head, giving her my precious tail to play with, but to no end. When she got very sad she would shut everything out, including me.
   At night, when she went to bed, I would go and sleep on an armchair next to her. She put a blanket on it for me, so it was perfectly comfortable, and it meant I could keep an eye on her. I would doze a bit but for most of the night I would watch her sleep, trying to make her feel that she wasn’t on her own. When her alarm went off in the morning, I would gently jump on her and lick her nose. I wanted her to feel loved when she opened her eyes every day, just as I did.
   But still, I felt sad myself, sometimes. Worrying about Claire was emotionally tiring, but I hoped that if I just stuck to my plan to help her, somehow I would know what to do; the answers had to be there somewhere.
   We had just gone into the sitting room that evening; her with her glass, me with my catnip toy that she had kindly bought me, when the doorbell rang. She looked a bit surprised as she went to open the door. I followed her protectively, touching her legs as she walked. A man stood on her doorstep. At first, I wondered if it was the man from the photo, but on closer inspection it wasn’t, although I did recognise him from some of the pictures. It was Tim, Claire’s brother. She didn’t look very happy to see him, though.
   ‘Didn’t take long for you to embrace the clich?,’ he said.
   ‘What are you talking about?’ she snapped.
   ‘Single women and cats. Sorry Claire, only joking.’ He smiled, but she did not and neither did I; we both stood aside and let him in. We followed him into the living room.
   ‘What are you doing here, Tim?’ she asked, as she gestured for him to sit down. I stayed by her side.
   ‘Can’t I visit my sister?’ he replied. He tried to stroke me but I arched myself away from him; I wasn’t sure if he was friend or foe. ‘Who’s this?’ he asked.
   ‘Alfie, he came with the house. Anyway, why didn’t you tell me you were coming? It’s not as if you could have been just passing.’
   ‘I’m only an hour and a half away, Claire, and it was a spur of the moment thing.’
   Claire seemed to be scrutinising him as she sat down in an armchair. I jumped onto her lap, trying to give Tim a haughty look, although I’m not sure I pulled it off. Sometimes it’s hard being as cute as me; people and cats don’t take me seriously.
   ‘Why didn’t you call me, at least?’ she pushed.
   ‘OK, let’s cut to the chase. I’m guessing you’re not going to offer me a drink?’ he asked. She shook her head resolutely.
   ‘Mum asked me to come. She’s worried about you. You know, it’s only been six months since Steve left you. You sell up and move a four-hour drive away from your home and Mum and Dad; from your friends and your job, to London – not exactly a friendly city – where you’ve never lived, and don’t know anyone. Of course we’re worried. Worried sick. And Mum is beside herself.’
   ‘Well you can stop worrying. Look at me, I’m fine.’ She looked and sounded angry.
   ‘Claire, Iam looking at you, and you seem anything but fine.’
   Claire sighed.‘Tim, I needed to get away, can’t you try to understand? Steve left me for another woman and they live down the road from my old house, not to mention near Mum and Dad. I couldn’t bear to see them every day, which I would have done if I’d stayed. I think you should all be proud of me. I gave him the quick divorce he wanted. I didn’t make a fuss. I sold our home, got myself a really good job, and bought this house. I did all that while my heart was broken into a thousand pieces.’ She stopped and wiped the tears from her cheek. I nestled into her as much as I could.
   ‘And that is great, Claire,’ Tim sounded softer too. ‘But we’re worried about how you really are. You’ve done amazingly, but you’re unhappy and Mum feels that you’re too far away. Can you just do me a favour and go home for the weekend soon, just to reassure her?’
   I thought that it might be a good idea; Claire would see her family and it would give me a chance to explore further, without having to worry about her. Was I being selfish? I hoped not.
   ‘Listen, Tim, I’ll make a deal. I’ll go home one weekend if you promise to tell Mum that I seem all right to you.’
   ‘OK Sis, I’ll do that, but you know what? Can you at least make me a cup of tea before I start the long drive back?’
   I decided to make friends with Tim when I realised he was an ally for Claire. We played with some of my toys together and I liked the way he got down on his hands and knees to fuss me, not minding that he looked daft. I rolled on my back, with my legs in the air and let him tickle my tummy; one of my favourite things ever. And while we played, he asked me to look after his sister and I tried to convey to him that I definitely would. I felt the weight of responsibility but I was ready for it. After we waved him off, I wondered if I could sneak out and go and see if Jonathan was home, but instead, Claire picked me up and carried me up to bed.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_010.jpg]
   Chapter Nine
   I arrived again at number 46 when it was barely light. Claire had told me that she had an early start at work and although she took the time to leave me some food, she rushed out of the door without giving me any affection. I tried not to be offended; humans were like that, they had a lot more stuff going on than we cats did. But still, it reinforced my view that I needed more people to look after me.
   I let myself in through the cat flap. The house was so quiet, almost eerie. It was also in darkness all the curtains were drawn and the blinds down. Being largely nocturnal animals, we cats are very good at seeing in the dark and using our other senses to negotiate our way around. I was quite an expert at dodging both indoor dangers, like furniture, and outdoor ones, like trees and other animals.
   I wondered for a moment what it would be like, being Jonathan. Having this big space, but being in it alone. That made no sense to me. In my cat basket in my old house, I would curl into the side, making myself as cosy as possible. If I’d had a basket that was any bigger, it wouldn’t have felt like home. Actually, my favourite times were after Agnes thawed towards me and we shared a basket. The warmth and the comfort that I got from her was wonderful. I missed it every day of my life. I wondered if Jonathan felt the same, andwhether that was why the woman had been in his house yesterday. Did they snuggle like Agnes and I did? I thought they probably did. Although, if he wasn’t nicer to her, I doubted she would come back.
   I sat in the hallway at the bottom of the staircase. One of the many things wrong with Jonathan’s house was his lack of carpet. Every floor was wooden, which could be quite a lot of fun for a cat – I had already discovered the joy of sliding along the floor on my bottom – but it was cold, and I loved a carpet to scratch at. And instead of curtains to play with, he had these rigid things which weren’t any fun. I realised, yet again, that this wasn’t really a house meant for a cat, but I still couldn’t help but be drawn to it.
   After what seemed like ages, a dishevelled Jonathan appeared on the stairs, still wearing his pyjamas. He looked tired and scruffy; a bit like I did before a good groom. He stopped and stared straight at me, but he didn’t exactly look pleased to see me.
   ‘Please tell me you didn’t leave the dead mouse on my mat?’ he said crossly.
   I gave him my best purr, as if to say,‘You’re welcome.’
   ‘You bloody cat. I thought I told you that you weren’t wanted here.’ He looked and sounded angry as he pushed past me into the kitchen. He took a mug out of the cupboard and started pressing buttons on a machine. I watched as coffee poured into the cup. He went to the fridge, which looked like a spaceship, and pulled out some milk. As he poured some into his mug I licked my lips hopefully. He ignored me, so I let out my loudest miaow.
   ‘If you think I’m giving you milk, you’ve got another think coming,’ he snapped.
   Honestly, he really was playing hard to get. I miaowed again to convey my disapproval.
   ‘I don’t need a pet,’ he continued, as he sipped his drink. ‘I need peace and quiet, to try to get my life here sorted out.’ I pricked my ears to show I was interested. ‘I don’t need dead mice on my doorstep, thank you very much, and I don’t need anyone disrupting my peace.’
   I purred again, this time in an effort to win him round a bit.
   ‘It’s bad enough being in this bloody cold country again.’ He looked at me as if he was speaking to a human. If I could have, I would have told him that it wasn’t that cold, after all, it was summer. He continued. ‘I miss Singapore. I miss the heat and I miss the lifestyle. I made one mistake and that was that. Back here. No job, no girlfriend.’ He paused to take another sip of his drink. My eyes narrowed as he began to open up. ‘Oh yes, she left me soon enough when I lost my job. Three years of paying for everything for her and she couldn’t even console me for one day before she buggered off. And yes, I was lucky that I had enough money to buy this house, but let’s face it, it’s hardly bloody Chelsea, is it?’ I didn’t exactly know what ‘Chelsea’ was, but I tried to look as if I agreed with him.
   I felt happy as I flicked my tail up in triumph. I was right; he was sad and lonely and not just a grumpy man, although hewas undoubtedly grumpy. But I saw an opportunity; a small one, but one all the same. Jonathan needed a friend, and this cat made an excellent friend.
   ‘And why am I talking to a bloody cat? It’s not as if you even understand.’ How little he knew, I thought, as he drank the rest of his coffee. To show that I did indeed understand, I rubbed up against his legs, giving him the affection that I knew he craved. He looked surprised but he didn’t immediately pull away. I decided to push my luck, so I jumped up onto his lap. He looked surprised. However, just as he looked like he would soften, he bristled.
   ‘Right, I am going to phone your owner and tell them that you need collecting,’ he said, angrily. He gently took hold of my disc and then he did what Claire had done and dialled the number. When the number didn’t work, he tutted and looked annoyed.
   ‘Where the hell do you live?’ I tilted my head at him. ‘Look, you need to go home. I can’t stand around all day dealing with you. I’ve got a job to find and a cat flap to get removed.’ He looked at me with mean eyes before walking away.
   I felt happier, though. Firstly, he had started talking to me, which was a very good sign, and secondly, he hadn’t thrown me out. He had walked away knowing I was still in his house. Maybe he was growing to like me. I really thought this man might have a bark worse than his bite.
   I tentatively followed him upstairs, but kept out of the way as I looked around. I wanted to learn more about him, so I thought observing him would be a good idea.
   He was a tall man, and not fat at all. I prided myself on my appearance and, by the looks of it, Jonathan did, too. We definitely had something in common there. He took a very long shower in a room which was attached to his bedroom, and when he came out, he opened a long built-in wardrobe and picked out a suit. When dressed, he looked smart, like one of those men in the old black and white films my Margaret used to love. She said they were‘suave and handsome, just as men should be’, and I have to say, I think she would have approved of Jonathan’s looks.
   Quietly I made my way downstairs, careful that he hadn’t seen me watching him, and I waited again, at the bottom of the stairs.
   ‘You still here, Alfie?’ he said, but he didn’t sound quite as hostile as before.
   I miaowed in reply. He shook his head but I felt warm inside; he had used my name!
   He went to the cupboard under the stairs, where there was a row of black shiny shoes, and picked out a pair. He sat on the stairs to put them on. Then he pulled a jacket off the coat rack and took his keys from the console table in the hall.
   ‘Right, Alfie, I guess you can show yourself out this time, and please don’t let me find you here when I get back. Or any more dead things.’ As he shut the door behind me, I stretched my legs in pleasure. I knew now that I could help Jonathan. He was sad, angry and lonely and, like Claire, hereally needed me. He just might not have realised it yet.
   He was softening, and so quickly. I thought about what I could do to win him over, and I realised that despite what he said, he needed another present. But not a mouse this time, something a bit prettier. A bird! That was it, I would bring him a bird. After all, nothing says‘let’s be friends’ like a dead bird.
   Later that afternoon, I deposited the bird on the doormat as I had done with the mouse. Surely now Jonathan would understand that I wanted to be his friend. I felt quite happy, so I decided to take a walk to the end of the street, basking in the sunshine. It wasn’t exactly hot, but it was a nice day and if you found the right spot, you could sunbathe. I found a lovely sunny area in front of one of the uglier modern houses that had been split into two flats. The front doors sat side by side; 22A and 22B, and they looked identical.
   They both had‘Letting Agreed’ signs standing outside, with a logo I had seen many times in this street. I enjoyed sitting in the sun for a while. There was no sign of anyone at either house yet, but I made a note to myself to come back – I knew that people would be coming soon. And after all, life was still a bit precarious. Claire loved me but wasn’t at home during the day, and she was going away at the weekend. Jonathan, well, that could still go either way, despite my determination. I needed more options.
   I had discovered that I could rely on myself, but that didn’t suit a cat like me. I didn’t want to be feral, and fighting. I wanted to be on someone’s lap, or a warm blanket, being fed out of tins and given milk and affection. That was the kind of cat I was; I couldn’t change that, and I really didn’t want to.
   The cold, lonely nights of the past few months were still fresh in my mind: the fear that had lived with me every minute; the hunger; the exhaustion. It wasn’t something I would ever be able to face again, and it wasn’t something I would ever forget. I needed a family, I needed love and I needed security. It was all I wanted, yearned for, and I would never ask for anything more than that.
   As the sun began to disappear, I strolled back. I thought about how funny life could be. I was so lonely when Agnes died, it made me ill. I pined for her terribly and my owner took me to the dreaded vet. I had stopped eating and relieving myself, and Kathy, the vet, said that I’d given myself a bladder infection. She said it was due to grief, as she prodded and poked around. Margaret had seemed surprised; she hadn’t thought that cats felt emotions like humans. Maybe it wasn’t exactly the same, but it was pretty bad. I was mourning Agnes, and it had made me ill. AndClaire was mourning Steve, the man in the suit, and Jonathan was mourning something called ‘Singapore’. I saw the grief in them as I had felt it myself. So I decided I would be there for them, as any decent cat would be.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_011.jpg]
   Chapter Ten
   I called for Tiger at about lunchtime, as I wanted to show her the flats at number 22. We took a leisurely stroll up there– Tiger wasn’t one for rushing around when she didn’t need to – and we stopped only to tease a big ugly dog, who was shut in his front garden. The game was to go right up to the gate, and poke a paw through, making him lunge forward. Tiger and I would then jump back, which made us very happy. The dog got so angry; he was barking wildly, and flashing his snarling teeth at us. It was most fun. The dog tried to jump up, but everyone knows that cats can jump higher than dogs. I didn’t think we would ever tire of this game but eventually, Tiger wanted to stop.
   ‘I think we’ve embarrassed him enough,’ she said. I flashed him my best cat grin as we stalked off. If he had been free he wouldn’t have thought twice about chasing us and frightening us half to death. That was the way of the world.
   The flats at number 22 were still empty when we got there, but as we went to the small front lawn, Tiger gave me her approval. We decided to take the back way home, so we could jump up and balance on fences, to make a change. We chased the odd bird, too, for added entertainment. It was a lovely afternoon.
   I had a short cat nap and was waiting for Claire when she got home, which seemed to please her. She gave me a big, bright smile.
   ‘Alfie, we have a guest for dinner tonight,’ she said, sounding excited. She went off to shower. When she came back downstairs she was wearing a pair of jeans and a jumper, not pyjamas. She started cooking and although she poured a glass of wine as she did this, for once she wasn’t crying. She fed and petted me, as she pulled things out of the fridge and put them in a pan. She was happier than I had ever seen her as she hummed to herself, and I wondered if the man in the picture was coming round. I felt afraid for her as well as optimistic.
   The doorbell went and she rushed to open the door. When she did, I saw a woman who looked around the same age as Claire standing there, holding out some flowers and wine.
   ‘Hi Tasha, come in,’ Claire smiled.
   ‘Hi Claire, what a gorgeous house,’ Tasha exclaimed, cheerily, as she entered.
   I watched them as Tasha took her coat off and Claire asked her if she wanted a glass of wine, before they sat down at the small dining table.
   ‘You’re my first proper visitor,’ Claire said. I felt a little bit put out; I was her first proper visitor, surely?
   ‘Well, cheers to that and welcome to London! It’s good to see you out of the office.’
   ‘Is it always that crazy at work?’ Claire asked.
   ‘Yes, or even crazier!’ Tasha laughed and I immediately liked her. I settled myself under the table and brushed against her leg. She rewarded me by stroking my tail in a very lovely way – something I really enjoyed. I wanted Claire and Tasha to be friends, so I could be friends with her too.
   I was right, it seemed Tasha’s visit was doing her good as Claire did eat properly and I hoped that perhaps she was turning a corner. When I began to stop pining for Agnes my appetite came back, perhaps hers was too.
   ‘So, tell me what brought you to London?’ Tasha asked.
   ‘It’s a long story,’ Claire replied, and she poured them both more wine before she started talking.
   I stayed still under the table, huddled in the warmth of Tasha’s leg, and listened as Claire filled in the blanks of her recent life. As she spoke, I could hear her voice change but I knew she wasn’t crying; she went from sad, to angry, and back to sad again.
   ‘I married Steve, after we’d been together for three years. We lived together for a year and he proposed as soon as we moved in.’
   ‘When did you get married?’ Tasha asked.
   ‘Just over a year ago. I hadn’t had much luck in love, to be honest. My mum always said I was a late starter. I didn’t really have a relationship until I went to university! I was studious, I guess. But then I met Steve. I was living in Exeter, in Devon, working for a marketing consultancy, and I met him at a party. He was handsome and lovely. I fell for him straight away.’
   ‘Right,’ Tasha said, draining her glass and pouring more drinks.
   ‘I thought he was the perfect man; funny, kind and charming. And when he proposed I thought I’d burst with happiness. I was about to turn thirty-five, I wanted children really badly, and he agreed. We said that we’d get married and enjoy a bit of a honeymoon, then try for a baby.’ Claire wiped a tear from her eye. She was being stronger than I’d ever seen her, but her sadness was all around us.
   ‘Are you sure you want to tell me?’ Tasha asked, softly. Claire nodded and took a sip of her drink before continuing.
   ‘Sorry, but I haven’t spoken about it to many people.’
   ‘Please, don’t apologise.’ Tasha was definitely a woman after my own heart.
   ‘But then about three months after the wedding, he changed. He became moody and short-tempered and whenever I asked what was wrong, he just snapped at me. It got to the point that I was almost too scared to speak in my own home.’
   I felt many emotions listening to Claire’s story; sadness, anger, and real affection for the woman who took care of me. If I ever saw this awful man, I’d scratch him across the face. And I’m not even a violent cat.
   ‘About eight months after the wedding he told me that he’d made a terrible mistake. He had fallen in love with someone else and he left me and moved in with her. I knew who she was, she worked in his gym. What a clich?, eh?’
   ‘What a jerk, more like,’ Tasha said.
   ‘I know, but I feel like such a fool. I really thought that he was the one, and I had no idea that he was probably cheating on me for ages. And that’s why I moved. They lived in the same area as me. Exeter is a small city and I knew that I’d probably see them all the time. I couldn’t bear that.’ I finally understood why Claire was here and why she cried so much. It just made me love her more – I wanted to take care of her as much as she took care of me.
   ‘Sometimes I think that you never truly know another person,’ Tasha said, sounding sad.
   ‘Sorry,’ Claire said, suddenly sitting up straight and pulling herself together, ‘I haven’t asked about you. You say your husband’s called Dave?’
   ‘Boyfriend, or “partner”, if we’re being PC. We’ve been together for ten years, neither of us wants to get married but that’s more about marriage than our relationship, I hope. We’re happy. We don’t have children, but it’s in the plans for the next year or so. Dave plays football too much and is messy and I drive him crazy in other ways, but we work.’ Tasha almost looked apologetic.
   ‘I’m glad, because then there’s always hope,’ Claire smiled. I realised that although I was sure she was crying because of Steve, she was also lonely in other ways and Tasha might help her with that. I knew she had me but I wasn’t so vain that I didn’t know she also needed human friends.
   ‘Look, I have a book group. It’s a bit lame, because we drink wine and gossip more than we talk about the books, but why don’t you join us? It’d be a really good way for you to meet people and they are a really lovely bunch, even if I do say so myself.’
   ‘I’d love to. I need to rebuild my life now, that’s why I came here.’
   ‘Let’s drink to that,’ she raised her glass. ‘New beginnings.’
   I couldn’t resist it; I jumped onto the table, knowing full well that humans didn’t really like that, and I raised my paw to touch the glass, which was my way of joining in. They both looked at me and laughed.
   ‘That’s an incredible cat you’ve got there,’ Tasha said, giving me a very big fuss.
   ‘I know, he came with the house. Although, Alfie, you shouldn’t be on the table.’ But Claire wasn’t cross; she laughed. I grinned my cat grin and jumped down.
   They both seemed happy, so I thought it might be a good time to check on my other friend, Jonathan, and see if he had received my latest present yet. They didn’t seem to notice me leave via the cat flap, as they were still laughing. It seemed that Tasha made Claire happy and I was very glad of it.
   It was dark and the temperature had dropped as I made my way through the back gardens to number 46. The big fat Tom who had bullied me before tried to scare me, but I just yelled as loudly as I could at him and he backed off. He was too fat to chase me anyway. I went through the cat flap and into Jonathan’s immaculate kitchen. It was in darkness but I soon found him sitting on the sofa in his living room. In front of him was a computer and there was a man’s face on the screen, which seemed to be talking.
   ‘Thanks mate, I appreciate it,’ Jonathan said.
   ‘No worries.’ The man on the screen spoke English but with a funny-sounding accent. He looked about the same age as Jonathan, but not so handsome.
   ‘I’m just grateful that I’ve got a job, I can’t cope with having nothing to do.’
   ‘It’s not quite the same as SSV, but it’s a good company and it should suit you.’
   ‘If you’re ever in the UK, I’ll buy you dinner,’ Jonathan said.
   ‘Same if you come to Sydney. Anyway, see you mate.’
   Jonathan closed the lid on the computer and it was time for me to make my entrance. Standing as tall as I could, I lifted my tail magnificently in the air. I strode, with my best cat walk, one foot crossing over the other, and moved slowly, but purposefully, to where Jonathan was sitting.
   He sighed deeply.
   ‘You again. And I’m guessing you left me the dead bird this time?’ He didn’t sound as cross as he had done; I knew he would be pleased. I tilted my head and miaowed at him. I was sure he really liked the bird.
   ‘Why do cats not understand that humans don’t want dead animals in their houses?’ I looked at him curiously. I understood this with some people but I knew that Jonathan was like most cats; he liked the chase and the kill, I could tell. He wouldn’t admit it but I was pretty sure he was beginning to enjoy my presents. He stood up.
   ‘Let’s make a deal. If I feed you, will you leave me alone?’ I tilted my head again. Once more, I knew he didn’t mean it. ‘It might work; after all, it seems that if I don’t feed you, you come back, so maybe you’re the sort of cat that prefers reverse psychology.’
   I had no idea what he was talking about, but he went to the fridge, took out some prawns and dropped them in a bowl for me. He then poured me a saucer of milk.
   ‘I’m only doing this because I’m in a good mood. I’ve got a job, you see,’ he said, as I concentrated on the feast laid out before me; I was overjoyed. He went back to the fridge, took out a bottle, opened it and started drinking. ‘I’m so relieved, I was beginning to think that I’d never get another job.’ He shuddered and I kept eating.
   ‘What on earth is wrong with me?’ he asked. ‘I’m talking to a bloody cat. Surely that’s the second sign of madness.’ I fleetingly wondered what the first sign was.
   When I had finished eating, I licked my paws clean, noticing that he was watching me as he nursed a beer. When I’d finished, I went to rub his legs in thanks and then, as quickly as I had arrived, I left.
   I knew how to play this man; I didn’t want him to think that I was a needy cat. Alpha males didn’t like needy, I had learnt that from the soap operas as well. And anyway, look how far I had come already. From being a terrified, broken-hearted, lonely little cat, to one who had survived the streets and now had two new friends to care for. I hoped Margaret and Agnes could see me from wherever they were, and that they would be proud of me.
   Thinking about my old life made me sad, but despite that, I smiled to myself all the way back to Claire’s. Not only had I had two dinners tonight, but now I knew for sure that Jonathan liked me and it would only be a matter of time before I could call his big house home, too.
   I thought to the weekend ahead; Claire had told me she would be going to see her parents, but I knew she would leave me food. As much as I would miss her, I was quite glad she was going away, as it would give me the chance to bond properly with Jonathan. I was pretty certain that after spending more time with me he would find me irresistible. After all, it had only taken me a few days to get Agnes on side and she was far more moody and stubborn a cat than Jonathan was a man.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_012.jpg]
   Chapter Eleven
   As Claire packed her things, I realised that she was nervous. She kept biting her lip and stopping to sit down, as if her legs didn’t work properly. I prided myself on being a perceptive cat; I assumed that she was scared of bumping into that awful man, Steve, and his girlfriend. But despite this setback, Claire had been doing quite well. She and Tasha were obviously becoming friends, as Claire had decided to go along to this book club thing the following week. She was reading a book, something about a woman who planned to kill her husband. Claire said it would probably have given her ideas had she still been married; it was cheaper than a divorce, apparently. I hoped she would make more friends at the book club. I wanted Claire to be happy again more than anything. I almost felt that my happiness was irrevocably tied up with hers, now.
   After a couple of weeks with Claire, I already loved her. I knew because of the way I had loved Agnes and Margaret. Margaret was a beautiful person. She was always smiling, even when she was struggling, and she wanted to help others although she could have done with a lot of help herself. She was a huge inspiration to me and she made me the cat I was.
   Claire needed my love and it was my duty to give it. I stayed close to Claire as she packed, giving her extra rubs and making sure she knew I was there. As she took her bag downstairs, she turned to me and picked me up.
   ‘Are you sure you’re going to be OK when I’m away?’ she asked, her eyes full of concern.
   I tipped my head as if to say‘Of course.’
   ‘There’s plenty of food; just take care. I’ll miss you.’ She kissed me on the tip of my nose, something she’d never done before. I purred in thanks.
   A car honked its horn and she gave me a last stroke before she left the house, locking the door behind her. I hoped that she would be all right and the horrible Steve wouldn’t upset her this weekend, and then I went out.
   I greeted a couple of younger cats that were playing in the street and carried on walking to the end of the road to have another look at the house split into two. I wondered if anyone had moved in to the flats yet. I stopped short when I saw a man and a woman by the closed front door of 22A. The woman had something tied to her chest which, on closer inspection, seemed to be a noisily crying baby. The man had his arm around her. She was very beautiful; tall with long blonde hair and green eyes that any cat would be envious of, to be frank. I stayed back so I could observe them for a bit as they locked the door of their new home. Inside, I was jumping for joy; there were three of them, and despite the fact that one of them was smaller than me, it meant a household with three more people to take care of me, rather than one.
   I edged closer so I could hear what they were saying.
   ‘Don’t worry, Pol, it’s going to be lovely when we get the furniture in.’ The man was taller than the woman, and he was kind looking, although lacking in hair.
   ‘I don’t know, Matt, it’s such a long way from Manchester, and so much smaller than our old house.’
   ‘Think of it as just a temporary step, it’s a rental and as soon as we’re settled, we’ll get somewhere better. Darling, you do know that I couldn’t turn this job down, it’s for our future; ours and little Henry’s.’ He leant over and kissed the top of the head, which had stopped crying.
   ‘I know, but I’m scared. I’m terrified.’ She looked as frightened as I had felt when I first started my journey to Edgar Road.
   ‘Honestly, we’ll be fine, Polly. We can move in tomorrow when the furniture arrives, out of the cramped hotel room into our first home in London, so that’s something positive. This is a new start for us; for us as a family.’
   I immediately liked Matt as he took Polly into his arms and enveloped his wife and child the way a proper man should. Yes, I instinctively knew that this would be a good household for me to be part of. They walked away together, and I decided that I would visit them again once they’d moved in. That would be a better time to introduce myself.
   I had a spring in my step as I jumped through Jonathan’s cat flap. You see, I knew he liked me, as he hadn’t followed through with his threat to get rid of it. I found him sitting in the living room on the computer again. I managed to look at the screen; there wasn’t a person there, but photographs of shiny cars. I jumped up next to him.
   ‘Oh, it’s you again? I guess you didn’t understand my deal last night.’ I wanted to tell him that I understood it but I just didn’t agree with it, so I miaowed loudly, hoping that would do.
   ‘I guess I should at least be thankful that you haven’t brought me anything dead today.’ My heart dropped; I felt terrible to be turning up empty handed. I lay down and put my head on the keyboard. I thought he might be cross, but luckily he laughed.
   ‘Come on, you can have the rest of the prawns. They’d only be thrown away.’ I licked my lips and followed him to the kitchen. He tipped the prawns into a bowl and I ate them greedily. I wasn’t hungry, but fresh prawns were a huge treat. When I finished eating, I noticed he was dressed nicely tonight; not a suit, but not scruffy. I looked at him with my eyes slightly closed, suspiciously.
   ‘Right, Alfie the Unwanted, I’m going out on the town tonight. If I were you, I wouldn’t wait up.’ He laughed and, before I knew it, he’d slunk out the front door.
   I had two homes but I was still alone. In my old house, I had rarely been on my own. If Margaret went out, then Agnes would be there, and after Agnes died, Margaret would only leave the house for such a short time that I barely even noticed that she was gone.
   I couldn’t wait for the new family at 22A to move in. This cat had needs; food, water, warm shelter, laps and love. That was all I required but after what I had been through in my short life, I wasn’t taking any chances. I decided to go to sleep on Jonathan’s expensive looking sofa for now, and despite what he had said, I would wait up for him, because without Claire here he was the only family I had.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_013.jpg]
   Chapter Twelve
   I was daydreaming about the past. About living in my old house with Margaret and Agnes. The day was cold, and Agnes was in a lot of pain. Margaret had phoned the vet, who had said the end was imminent. If Margaret wanted to take her in she would give Agnes something to help the pain; it was either that, or put her to sleep.
   Margaret sobbed, a bit like Claire had been doing, tears filled with grief ran down her sunken cheeks. I wanted to join in, but Agnes was trying so hard to be brave that I suppressed my own emotion and I snuggled into her, hoping that I wasn’t adding to her pain. Margaret was getting ready to take her to the vet, which wasn’t very easy as Margaret was old and didn’t have a car – she could barely lift the cat carrier any more. She phoned her neighbour, a nice man called Don, who wasn’t much younger than Margaret and he said that he would take her. He was always happy to help Margaret. Agnes said that she thought at one stage they might end up together, after Don’s wife died a few years back, but Margaret was far too fond of her own company, as she was often heard to say.
   ‘All I need is myself and my cats,’ she used to say, laughing. I could almost hear her voice now.
   Back then, I had to stay at home while they took Agnes to the vet. Left in the house alone, I yowled louder than I ever had before. I was so scared about losing Agnes. Even if she came home, I knew there wasn’t much longer in her, I’d heard Margaret talking about that.
   Agnes did come home, and I was so excited. I was so thankful, I licked her. I had thought I would never see her face again, and although she was quiet, she was there, by my side, where she should have been. I was euphoric. But by the morning she was gone. I knew because I slept with her and at some point when I woke I noticed her heart had stopped beating. I had gone from feeling so happy to completely wretched in the space of a few hours.
   At that point in time, it was the worst day of my life.
   My sad thoughts were interrupted by a key in the door, followed by howls of laughter and a clacking of heels. The house remained in darkness as I heard footsteps enter the room and then, just as I was about to stretch, someone fell on me.
   I yelped as loudly as I could. A woman’s voice screamed. Jonathan put on the light and looked a bit cross.
   ‘What are you doing on my sofa?’ he asked, sounding angry. I would have liked to have asked him the same thing; after all, I was there first. Instead I jumped off and stood in the room surveying the situation.
   The woman wasn’t the woman from before. She was tall and thin and had a very short skirt which showed off very long legs.
   ‘Is that your cat?’ the woman asked, slurring her words slightly. What was it with humans getting drunk?
   ‘No, it’s my bloody squatter,’ Jonathan replied glaring at me. I didn’t know what a squatter was, but it didn’t sound good. The woman approached him again and flung her arms around him. As they started kissing, I decided that it was time for me to leave. After all, I had often heard it said that three was a crowd.
   It was light outside as I awoke on Claire’s bed. Skipping downstairs, I stopped to eat one of the bowls of food that Claire had left for me and drink some water, before taking an early morning walk. It wasn’t exactly Jonathan’s prawns, but at least I was well fed. I decided to give him a wide berth until later, when perhaps his guest had left. So instead I went to check on the progress of the number 22 flats.
   Although it was early, the tall woman and the baby were there in the front garden and the man was unloading furniture from a white van. The woman, despite her beauty, looked very worried. She was constantly biting her lip and sighing. Yet again, it seemed I was drawn to a human in need. Although I didn’t know what her need was yet.
   ‘I’ve got to go and feed Henry,’ she said, as the sound of a baby’s wail started up from inside.
   ‘OK, Polly, I’ll carry on here.’
   I followed the woman inside; it was a house without stairs, all on one level. It was a fairly small space that looked as if it was almost ready to be lived in. There was a serious amount of unpacking to do, but there was a large grey sofa and a matching chair, which Polly went to sit on, with her baby. She stuck him to her chest and he stopped crying immediately. I was incredibly curious; I’d seen this on television but not in real life. It brought back very vague and unreliable memories of how my mother used to nurse me before we were weaned and I went to live with Margaret. It made me feel even more nostalgic about my past. Suddenly the woman looked at me. I blinked in greeting but as I prepared to introduce myself, she screamed loudly. The baby started crying and the man ran into the room.
   ‘What’s wrong?’ he asked, his voice full of concern.
   ‘There’s a cat here!’ she shrieked, as she tried to resettle the baby back on her. I was a little offended; I hadn’t had quite that reaction before. Not even from Jonathan.
   ‘Polly, it’s a cat, I’m not sure you need to be quite so upset.’ Matt spoke gently, as if he was speaking to a child. Her baby was quiet again but now it was Polly’s turn to start crying. I realised I might have made a huge mistake; this woman clearly had an extreme phobia of cats. I wasn’t sure that such a thing existed but she certainly seemed scared of me.
   ‘But I’ve read that cats kill babies.’ I yelped as if I’d been hit. I’d been accused of many things in my life; killing birds and mice and even, if needs must, the occasional rabbit, but I’d never killed a baby. Perish the thought.
   ‘Pol,’ the man went and knelt down next to her. ‘Cats don’t kill babies. They just say to make sure they are not in the room when the baby is in their cot, in case they go and sleep on them and accidentally smother them. This cat is awake, and you’ve got Henry.’ I liked him even more than I had at first; his voice was gentle and full of patience.
   ‘Are you sure?’ She seemed more than a little neurotic to me. I could tell that there was something wrong with this woman. Not in the way there was with Claire, but there was definitely something that wasn’t right.
   ‘How on earth can the cat kill Henry while you’re here?’ He came over and picked me up. He was a nice man, I decided; he held me firmly but gently. You can tell a lot from a man from the way they hold you. Jonathan was a little too rough, but this man was just right.
   ‘Matt, I just …’ Polly looked upset still.
   ‘His name is Alfie,’ he said, reading my tag. ‘Hello, Alfie,’ he added, giving me a stroke. He had nice hands and I rubbed my head against him. ‘Anyway, he doesn’t live here, Polly, so you’ve got nothing to worry about. He must have just crept in while the front door was open. Where do you live?’ he asked me, and I gave him my most charming miaow.
   ‘How can you be sure that he doesn’t live here?’
   ‘He’s got a name tag. There’s a number on it. I’ll call it if it’ll make you feel better.’
   ‘No, no, I’m sure you’re right. Just make sure you put him out.’
   Polly still looked unsure. The baby seemed to be asleep on her and I felt that although this man was nice, there was definitely sadness in the small, square room.
   ‘Right, well, I’ll go and finish unloading. Come on Alfie, time for you to go home.’ He carried me outside and gently put me on the doorstep. I hadn’t had a chance to look round the rest of the flat, but I didn’t want to risk upsetting Polly again.
   I had a few hours to fill before dinner time so I thought that perhaps it was time to find Jonathan another present. After all, now I was winning him over, I needed to step up my charm offensive. It would be useful to have him onside because I definitely had my work cut out with Polly.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_014.jpg]
   Chapter Thirteen
   I left number 22A, having made the decision to get a present for Jonathan, but was distracted by the bright sunlight. I had been told many times that cats should hunt at night; that this was meant to be our favourite nocturnal activity, but I’d never been much of a going-out-at-night cat and nowadays, I only went out at night if I absolutely had to, after my terrifying journey.
   There were plenty of birds flying overhead but as I sat on a grassy verge by the local park, I saw some butterflies fluttering around. I made a few unsuccessful attempts to leap at them, but they managed to get away. Then I spotted some resting on a nearby bush. Unable to resist, I started chasing them. It had been one of my favourite games back when I lived with Margaret. I pounced this way and that, and the butterfly escaped my paws every time. Getting slightly out of breath, I made one last attempt and leapt for it into a large leafed bush, but I misread the distance and instead fell and landed on my bottom. A passing bird laughed at me. Although I was bruised, and a little embarrassed, it had been fun. I mustered my dignity, hauled myself up and decided to abandon hunting or chasing for another day.
   I found a sunny spot to rest, where I accidentally fell asleep. I must have slept for a long time, because when I was awoken by two of the neighbourhood cats having a screeching row over who was the best looking, it was getting dark. The argument wasn’t that unusual, cats can be vain. They asked me to choose, but I knew the dangers of getting involved, so I told them they were both fine looking cats and diplomatically slid off.
   With Claire still away, I went back to Jonathan’s. I let myself in through the cat flap, finding the house in darkness. I padded through the empty kitchen and into the living room. I was surprised to find Jonathan lying on the sofa. He was resting his head on a cushion as if he was asleep, but his eyes were open. There was no sign of the woman from last night; he was alone, once again. He looked at me as I walked in, and I felt bad that I’d come empty handed. He looked as if he really needed a present.
   ‘You’re back,’ he said, dryly. ‘I’d almost say I’m pleased to see you. At least the house isn’t so damn empty any more.’ I miaowed a ‘thank you’ although I wasn’t sure how much of a compliment it was. Despite that, I decided to chance my luck and I jumped up on the sofa and sat next to him. He looked at me but he didn’t tell me to get off, which was progress of sorts.
   ‘Where do you go when you’re not here?’ he asked, suddenly. I miaowed. ‘Do you just roam the streets? Because I get the feeling that you actually live with me.’ He looked confused and I purred my assent. ‘It’s funny, Alfie, but it’s hit me that this is my life now. I live in this empty house which is too big for me, and I have barely any friends.’ I wondered about the two women I’d met here so far. ‘And we can’t count my one night stands. I don’t know how I got to the age of forty-three, with nothing meaningful to show for my life,’ he continued, sounding self-pitying. ‘No wife, no family, and only a handful of friends, most of whom are in different countries.’ I moved closer to him and tried to purr compassionately.
   ‘It’s just me and you, Alfie. All I have for my forty-three years is a bloody cat to talk to, and I don’t even know if you’re mine.’
   I looked at him, head tilted to one side, trying to be reassuring.
   ‘I guess you’re hungry?’ he said, and I miaowed as loudly as I could. This was more like it. I was famished. I followed him into the kitchen where he took some smoked salmon out of the fridge. As much as I loved Claire, dinner with Jonathan was really special. He put some on a plate on the floor for me and he stroked me as I started eating, in a tender way that he’d never done before. We were indulging in some male bonding.
   Although I was surprised, I concentrated on eating. I could be a bit of an emotional cat and I definitely felt my heart warming; I was touched. I had been determined that I would crack Jonathan, otherwise I wouldn’t have kept coming back, but I hadn’t imagined I would do so quite as quickly as this. If I hadn’t been so busy eating, I would have been jumping for joy.
   After we had both had dinner, we went back to the living room. We were a bit of an odd couple; a big man and a little cat. My heart swelled with happiness as we sat on the sofa together. Jonathan turned on a huge TV and started watching something which involved a lot of violence and men with guns. I could hardly believe I was allowed to sit with him, snuggled up on the sofa. Distractedly, he stroked me as he watched his programme, and although I didn’t like what was on the TV, I really liked the comfort he was giving me so I didn’t move an inch. It strengthened my resolve to make sure I gave Jonathan the help that I knew in my heart he needed.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_015.jpg]
   Chapter Fourteen
   I woke very early; I knew because it was still dark. I was a little surprised to see that I was still on Jonathan’s sofa. He hadn’t kicked me off, but left me sleeping. I must have fallen asleep whilst he was watching that gruesome film. I was reluctant to leave, but I really wanted to go to Claire’s, eat some breakfast, and then go and wait at 22A for any movement. I wondered if 22B would be occupied soon, and what the new family there would be like. Perhaps I would visit only the nicest of the two; I still hadn’t forgiven Polly for calling me a baby killer.
   When I arrived, after my morning meal, there was a van outside the building and the door to the other flat was open. It wasn’t a smart looking vehicle, like the one that Matt and Polly had had their furniture delivered in the previous day but a slightly battered, dark blue van that looked as if it might have hit a lot of lamp posts and run over a lot of animals. I shuddered – hopefully not cats. Two men were unloading furniture from it, which they were carrying into the house. I peered into the open front door. 22B was an upstairs flat. As soon as you opened the door there was a small space and then stairs. I was tempted to go in, but I held back as the men carried a table into the flat. They were struggling to negotiate the small space with the piece of furniture, and I sensed the danger of getting involved. They were speaking in a language I didn’t recognise. Their voices were quite loud and animated as if they were rowing, although I didn’t think they were. Mind you, seeing them have to carry the furniture up the steep flight of stairs, if they had been, I guess you couldn’t blame them. I hung back for a while, still itching to go inside, but fearful and unsure. Not only because the men were quite big, but also because of the language I didn’t understand. What if they were from a place where they ate cats? I didn’t know if such a place existed but I didn’t want to take any chances. Agnes had told me tales of countries where they ate dogs. Apparently it was normal for some cultures. I shuddered again. I didn’t want to end my life in anyone’s cooking pot.
   I wanted to find out more about the people who lived here, though. I lay low in the shadows as I saw the men come back downstairs. Despite the fact that I thought I was being discreet, one of the men spotted me and came over to pet me. I blinked a‘hello’ and he looked as if he blinked back. Although he seemed huge, he was surprisingly gentle with me and I purred at him. He seemed to blink quite a lot as he spoke to me in his strange language, and then a woman appeared and joined him. She was quite small but very pretty, with dark hair and brown eyes. She crouched down to pet me.
   ‘He don’t speak Polish,’ the man said, giving her a kiss.
   ‘Cats no speaking, Thomasz, she replied, in an accented voice. They both laughed and then went back to communicating in their original language. They looked to be about the same age as Polly and Matt, I guessed, and they seemed very kind and friendly. The woman’s smile was really infectious andmade me want to smile, although of course I did so with my eyes, by squinting at her. I’m not sure she noticed though, she was busy talking to both the men and I still couldn’t understand a word they were saying.
   ‘He still here,’ she said, suddenly turning her attention back to me.
   ‘Maybe he welcome us here,’ the man joked.
   ‘Maybe. Nice cat I think.’ Her smile disappeared suddenly and she turned to the man, clinging to him and looking scared. I tilted my head to one side, intrigued, as she said something in the funny language again.
   ‘Franceska, it will be OK. We come here for a better life. For us and the boys. I promise you it will be good.’ He took her in his big arms and although she was crying, she managed to smile too. Another friend in need for me, it seemed. I had a radar, and I felt that this street had given me a purpose in life; helping people.
   Relieved that I felt needed, I smiled to myself; I was learning that humans were more complicated than I thought. But they were friendly, and although the woman was sad, I saw a strength in her that neither Claire nor Polly seemed to have. I was sure that I would be welcome here, and I looked forward to coming back. I watched the woman go inside, before realising that it was sunny and bright and therefore time for me to go and get my second meal of the day.
   Stalking through the cat flap, I found Jonathan sitting at the kitchen table, eating toast and drinking coffee, dressed in sportswear. I miaowed loudly, to announce that I was there.
   ‘Hello, you. I’m guessing you want to eat?’ I jumped up on the chair next to him, and he laughed.
   ‘OK mate, hang on a minute. Let me finish my toast.’ I sat and waited, patiently. I think Jonathan had made a massive mistake somewhere along the line. I don’t mean the work thing he told me about, but the house. It was so empty with just him there, almost mocking him; taunting him that he was alone. If I was him, I would have chosen something smaller that didn’t seem so empty with just him and me to fill it. One of the flats at number 22 would probably have suited him better. I understood now why he spoke to me; like Claire, it was loneliness. I began to realise that I wasn’t the only one to have suffered from feeling excessive loneliness; I saw it in Claire, I saw it here, and I’d seen something like it, although perhaps not quite the same, in Polly and Franceska.
   There was much for a small cat like me to ponder; there was even more for me to do to put things right.
   Jonathan fed me some tuna from a tin, which wasn’t quite as good as the fresh prawns or smoked salmon, but I wasn’t one to complain.
   ‘I’m going to the gym, Alfie. Need to make sure I don’t get fat living here on my own like a mad man with only a cat to talk to.’ I was startled at his revelation but then he laughed, and I felt relieved. Of course he wasn’t mad, he was just a little unhinged.
   I decided to go and get some exercise as well. I’d eaten twice already and the fact that I was now being fed in two homes was something I had to consider. Of course, I didn’t want to give up eating the food; the memory of struggling to eat for days meant that I would never snub another meal in my life. But if the people at number 22 started feeding me as well, then it wouldn’t be just Jonathan getting fat, but me too. And there was no way that that could happen. I’d never fit in the cat flaps for a start.
   Despite the fact I was visiting different houses in the street, which meant I stalked between them, I was aware I had become a bit lazy, the way I was in my old life with Margaret. I was also looking better, being a much heartier weight. However, I still couldn’t chance being too lazy or complacent. What if I had to somehow survive on my own again? And although I shuddered at the thought, I knew it was a possibility. Hopefully not one I’d face, but one I had to be prepared for, this time, as I was never going to take chances ever again.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_016.jpg]
   Chapter Fifteen
   I was curled up in the special cat bed Claire had bought me, when I heard her key in the lock. My new bed was blue and white striped, and although it was not as comfortable as my old cat basket, it was pretty nice. Claire made a bee-line straight for me and gave me a huge fuss, which I really appreciated. I was also relieved. I had been worried she might come back crying; I had even fretted that she might not come back at all.‘I’ve missed you Alfie,’ she said, and I felt my heart warming, ‘I hope you missed me.’ She was smiling and she looked better. She was still too thin, of course, reminding me of how I was when she first met me. But her hair was glossy and her cheeks had some colour in them. It looked as if the weekend away had done her good.
   For a moment, I panicked that it might mean that she would move back there, where she came from, but then I tried to calm myself. She was here, wasn’t she? She had come back; I had to focus on that. I knew I worried far too much for a cat, but that was the consequence of my past. I was learning that I was drawn to helping people who mirrored the feelings I had experienced. The attraction seemed so strong that I knew it was important for me to do whatever I could for them.
   She went to the kitchen to feed me and she put the kettle on and made a cup of tea.
   After I’d eaten, she went to get a bag and came back with various toys for me. There was a thing that slightly resembled a mouse on a bit of string, a ball, some more catnip, and something that jangled. I rubbed up against her legs, in thanks; but in reality, I would have been just as happy with a shoelace. I’d never been much of a toy cat, not even as a kitten, but that was mainly because Agnes was so disdainful of that sort of thing. I wanted to impress her, so I too would act as if the toys were beneath me. I made an effort to play with them to please Claire, though. I wouldn’t want her to think me ungrateful.
   I chased the ball under the sofa, and then almost got stuck trying to retrieve it. I batted it with my paw and it rolled back out. As I emerged, I saw Claire laughing. She clapped her hands in delight. So then I tried to pick up the jangly thing with my paws but it slipped out and across the floor. I chased it again; it made a very strange tinkling noise. Every time I thought I’d got the toy, it slipped from my grasp, so I ended up going backwards and forwards across the room, which was infuriating. Claire seemed to find this delightful, although I couldn’t for the life of me understand why.
   She went upstairs, saying something about unpacking, and I decided to have another rest; playing was hard work. Also, the meal I had just wolfed down had made me sleepy– it was time for a cat nap. I awoke to laughter; a fairly alien sound in Claire’s household, so I was immediately alert. Tasha appeared and picked me up, making a huge fuss of me as she nestled into my neck.
   ‘Hello, gorgeous,’ she said. She was definitely a cat person and I wondered why she didn’t have her own cat as she seemed to like me so much. I knew she didn’t, as I would have detected the smell on her.
   Claire reappeared, carrying two glasses.
   ‘He’ll want to live with you, if you carry on like that,’ she said, laughing. Oh, where had the miserable Claire gone? She seemed like a different person. I couldn’t wait to hear what had caused this change.
   ‘I wish I could take him home, but unfortunately my other half is allergic to cats, so I just have to enjoy him here.’
   ‘Oh how awful, really allergic?’
   ‘Yes, I need to shower when I get home from here and wash my clothes, that’s how bad he is. Of course, if he’s been an idiot, I might just forget …’ They both laughed. I felt a bit affronted. I wasn’t sure that being allergic to me should be a laughing matter. What kind of person was allergic to cats?
   Claire left the room again and reappeared with some plates of food. She put them on the dining table, and they both sat down. To my amazement and delight, Claire ate. She ate more than I had ever seen her eat. I wanted to jump for joy, my Claire was definitely getting better, but I decided not to startle her by making a fuss.
   ‘So, do tell,’ Tasha said. ‘Something good obviously happened this weekend.’
   ‘Oh God, I feel so much better. Like I’ve completed the first quest in a mission, or something. I confronted my demons and survived them! You know, going home and risking bumping into them. And I did!’ Claire sounded almost gleeful and I tried to understand, but at the moment, it was beyond my limited comprehension.
   ‘Where?’ Tasha asked, her eyes wide.
   ‘Mum and I went to the supermarket. She still treats me like I’m five and she insisted on stocking up on food for me to bring home. Honestly, she acts like there are no supermarkets in London.’
   ‘Claire, get to the point,’ Tasha pushed, with a giggle.
   ‘Sorry, anyway, so we’re in the vegetable aisle and suddenly they both appear. Him pushing a trolley, and her moaning about something. I saw them before they saw me and neither of them looked happy.’ Claire, however, looked very happy.
   ‘What was she saying?’ Tasha and I were riveted.
   ‘No idea, but anyway, she was fat. I mean fatter than she ever was before they got together, and first I worried she was pregnant,’ Claire said.
   ‘Was she?’
   ‘No, but I’ll get to that. Mum was grabbing my arm for dear life, and then we came face to face. He didn’t look great, if I’m honest. But maybe that was because I was seeing him properly for the first time.’
   ‘Without your rose-tinted glasses?’
   ‘Exactly. Anyway, he said “hello” and I said “hello”. She stood with her mouth wide open, and I was relieved I’d put on nice clothes and done my hair and make-up.’
   ‘I told you to look your best at all times, just in case you saw the bastard.’
   ‘Yes, thank goodness I listened to you!’ She laughed and I wanted to give her a kiss, which I did, but on her arm, as she was still talking. I was proud of my Claire, although I wasn’t sure exactly why. ‘So, then I asked how they were, and they mumbled that they were fine, but I’m not sure they were. I mean I know I’m too thin, I do see that now, but how on earth can she have put on about three stone in a couple of months? She looked nothing like the woman he left me for. Anyway the worst bit is that, while I was civil, my mother stood beside me, quiet as a mouse, and then suddenly, from nowhere, she asked when the baby was due!’
   ‘Nooo, she didn’t?’
   ‘She did. I should have felt a bit smug, as she stormed off and Steve mumbled that there wasn’t a baby, but I almost felt sorry for them. I don’t know why. I mean, she knew he was married when she slept with him, and they nearly destroyed me with their behaviour, but I actually felt sorry forthem. Which is brilliant!’ Claire and Tasha hugged, and giggled like school children.
   I miaowed my approval. I might not know much but I’ve seen on the TV how relationships can ruin humans’ lives, to the point where I wonder if it wouldn’t be a better world if people were like cats? Of course we know love, but when it comes to romance, we are too wise to the way of the cat world to put all our kittens in one basket; we are necessarily pragmatic. I do find some female cats attractive, actually most of them, but I am not naive enough to think that we will be monogamous for life. Cats may be together for only a few days, or weeks, or months if we’re lucky, but then we either have kittens or we move on. Perhaps if humans fixated less on having to be with one person for the rest of their lives, they might actually find that life works a bit better for them?
   ‘So going home was a good thing after all, despite your reluctance?’
   ‘Not only because I saw them, and actually it didn’t upset me the way I was sure it would, but it made me feel that moving here wasn’t just running away any more. I want to be in London; with a good job and prospects, my lovely little home, Alfie, and of course my new friends. I actually enjoyed being home but I wanted to come back. I’m not completely fine, I know that, but I’ll admit some of the fear has gone.’
   ‘Well, this calls for a celebration. End of this week, I’ll organise a girls’ night out. We’ll hit the town and go to some of the best bars in London. Plenty of cocktails and cute men.’
   ‘You know what, I think I’m ready.’
   ‘Had she really put on three stone?’ Tasha asked.
   ‘I don’t know exactly, but she had definitely put ona lot. And unlike me, she didn’t really need to.’
   I was now under the table, and I snuggled into Claire’s legs, trying to convey to her that I was proud of her transformation. It was similar, of course, to my own, but now she needed to eat properly and drink less wine, and well, she might be as good as me. It seemed clear that Claire was now ready for her new beginning.
   ‘To new beginnings,’ she said, as she raised her glass. I wondered if she could read my mind as I jumped on the table and tried to join in with the toast.
   By the time that Claire and Tasha had nearly finished a second bottle, and were talking nonsense, I decided to sneak out to check on Jonathan. Now Claire was happier, I thought it might be time to concentrate a bit more on finding Jonathan’s smile. I had recognised a need in Claire that I knew, because I had been in her position, in my own way, and I felt as if I had been able to comfort and calm her. Now I had to do the same with Jonathan. We had made progress but there was still a way to go. I had my work cut out for me; that was for sure.
   I entered through the cat flap and found him in the living room, lying on the sofa again. He looked at me but didn’t even say anything, which wasn’t like him. There was no insult or greeting; he almost looked through me. He went back to staring at the TV, but he looked bad. His hair was a mess and he was wearing his pyjamas. He looked as if he had been there for a long time.
   I didn’t know what to do, but I went and sat next to him and miaowed gently.
   ‘If you’re hungry, you’re out of luck. I’m not moving,’ he said, sounding cross. Then he leant over and he stroked me as if to say he wasn’t cross. Mixed messages again. I wanted to tell him that I had just had a lovely meal and I had only come to be kind, but I wasn’t sure that my miaows conveyed that, exactly. I gave it a try. Jonathan wasn’t the sort of human that I found easy to figure out, but then perhaps I wasn’t an easy cat to figure out either. All I knew was that underneath his tough exterior, he was lonely and scared. I saw the fear in him as I had felt it in myself.
   I cocked my head to one side and tried again to tell him I wasn’t hungry – I was just worried about him. I snuggled into him, rubbing my head against him, trying to convey that I was there for him, and when I saw him looking at me with tears brimming in his eyes, I was pretty sure he understood.
   ‘Why do I feel like you’re looking into my bloody soul?’ he said, sounding irritated again. I didn’t know how to respond. ‘Well, if you do, you’ll see a black hole. Or maybe nothing at all. There’s nothing there. Anyway, I’ve got to work tomorrow; my shitty new job.’ He sighed. ‘But at least it’s a job. Better than withering away here. Anyway, come on, if you’re staying, you can come up to bed with me.’ To my total surprise he picked me up and carried me upstairs, plonking me down on a chair in his bedroom which was covered with the softest blanket I had ever felt.
   ‘I must be mad, that’s my best cashmere blanket,’ he sighed, as he put me down. He got into bed and almost immediately started snoring really loudly.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_017.jpg]
   Chapter Sixteen
   The following morning was busy and a little exhausting. I woke up at Jonathan’s; it was dark as he rushed around getting ready for his new job. He was muttering as he went to shower. Still wet and glistening but with a towel tied around him, he made a coffee. He didn’t eat anything, but quickly laid down a saucer of milk for me. He rushed back upstairs and came down looking very smart, but mumbling under his breath as he struggled to tie his tie. I left the house with him, trying to show my support as I followed him down the street. He was swearing and huffing and puffing which I knew was his way of masking his nerves.
   ‘Right, Alfie,’ he said. ‘I best go and face the first day back in the real world. Wish me luck.’ I rubbed up against his legs in order to do so. ‘Great, you’d better not have covered me in your bloody hair,’ he muttered, but then he leant down and patted my head before running off down the street. It was obvious that Jonathan loved me, but he certainly didn’t like to show his softer side.
   I followed him and tried very hard to keep up with my little legs; I wanted him to see the support I was giving him. He shook his head and laughed as he increased his pace. Breathlessly, we made it to the end of the street and as he went to cross the road, I knew I had to leave him there. I didn’t want to risk going further from Edgar Road than I felt comfortable with.
   Still a bit fatigued from my run, I rushed back to Claire’s, where she had just emerged from the shower.
   ‘Ah, there you are,’ she picked me up and kissed me. ‘Where on earth have you been? I was worried.’ I snuggled into her, to try to ensure she wasn’t upset with me. ‘Maybe you do the cat thing of prowling through the night?’ She did look a bit confused as she said this, but luckily shedidn’t seem cross. ‘But if you do, make sure you’re careful,’ she finished.
   She put me down and I sat on the chair next to her bed as she got ready. Humans were funny, using a contraption to wash– we have our own inbuilt shower – and then wrapping themselves in towels and clothes. Being a cat was so much easier. We kept our fur on all the time, cleaning ourselves wherever we wanted. In actual fact, we washed ourselves and combed our fur simultaneously; cats were much better designed than humans. And we certainly didn’t need to go to work – something they all seemed to spend a lot of time obsessing over. Although, I was finding that keeping my new families happy was quite hard work, so perhaps I did understand that a bit more now. Claire needed sympathy, Jonathan needed my patience, they both needed my love and help, and at the same time I was also beginning to court the attention of the families in the flats at number 22. Speaking of which, it was time for me to find out what was happening down there.
   Lack of exercise was no longer a problem for me as I bounded down the street towards 22A and 22B, feeling in a good cat mood. It was another sunny morning and I could almost smell the warmth as it began to permeate the air. It would be a hot day, I could tell, and for me, with my lovely fur coat, that would mean finding a spot that was sunny but not too hot and not too cool. I liked the sun, but no cat liked getting overheated. Sleeping in a nicely shaded spot was one of my favourite things in the world.
   I was very excited to see the door to number 22B open, and two children playing on the small lawn at the front of the building. Although it was shared with 22A, there was no sign of Polly or her crying baby, although I swear I could hear him, as I joined the two boys on the lawn. That wailing sound he made was almost louder than any crying I could do, even in my most heartbroken moments.
   The two boys were different sizes, but they were both quite small, and I could hear one of them chatting away to himself, using words I couldn’t quite make out. Suddenly, he spotted me and came up.
   ‘Cat,’ he said, very clearly, and laughed. I went to make friends with him, rubbing my head on his legs, which made him giggle. The younger boy, who had sat down to play with a toy car, laughed too. The woman I’d met before, Franceska, appeared at the door.
   ‘Hello, Alfie cat,’ she said. The boy said something to her. ‘Speaking English, Aleksy,’ she said gently, and yet again I wondered where they were from.
   ‘Mamma, is cat,’ he repeated, and she went up to him and gave him a kiss.
   ‘You are clever boy,’ she said, before she scooped up the smaller child. ‘We give him food?’
   ‘Yes, Mamma.’ Aleksy ran ahead into the house and Franceska hung back.
   ‘Come, Alfie,’ she commanded, and I felt touched at both the invitation and that she had remembered my name. Her accent was quite hard-sounding but I liked her. She had a lovely, gentle way about her; a quality that Jonathan certainly didn’t possess.
   We climbed the stairs to their flat, Franceska carrying the smaller boy, and I wondered at how strange it was to cut a house in two. It was something that I found quite puzzling. The flat itself was nice enough, it was bright and modern, but it was also square and small. The stairs led to a small hallway and as I explored, I walked into the living room where there were two small, soft looking sofas which took up most of the space; a spattering of toys and a wooden coffee table. At the end of the room was a dining table and past that, an opening which led to a small kitchen. Unlike Claire’s house, there were things scattered which made it a bit messy and lived-in. And unlike Jonathan’s, it was very short on space.
   I thought about how strange humans were. Jonathan had this big house just for him and yet here were four people (despite the fact two of them were quite small), in a space that was so compact. I didn’t understand how that worked, but it didn’t seem very fair. While Franceska busied herself with the boys, I went to snoop. There was a small corridor leading away from the stairs and I found two bedrooms, one which had a cot and a bed in it, the other a double bed. Outside the bedroom was a small, very white bathroom. The bedroom with the cot and bed was quite messy; there were toys scattered all over the floor. The other bedroom was neater and quite plain. There was nothing wrong with the place but I worried that it was too small for a growing family.
   After I finished snooping, I joined them. The boys were sat on one of the sofas, side by side. The younger one was clutching a soggy biscuit. Aleksy was pleased to see me and started stroking me, and tickling my neck. It felt nice. Many of my cat friends and acquaintances sang the praises of children, and with Aleksy’s little hands, and his warm smile, I was beginning to understand why.
   Franceska returned to the room.
   ‘We can give him fish, when we have the lunch,’ she said. My ears pricked up excitedly. ‘And then maybe you can practise your English on him. Me too,’ she laughed. ‘And I should phone the number on the tag to make sure he’s not lost.’ I narrowed my eyes. Claire and Jonathan hadn’t changed my tag, so luckily the number was Margaret’s old one. My plan was safe for now.
   ‘Can he live here?’ Aleksy asked.
   ‘No,kochanie. We live in flat. We no allowed pets.’ Goodness, I was taken aback. Imagine, being banned from anywhere! That was so unfair.
   ‘It is not easy,’ he said to me, sadly, as she returned to the kitchen. ‘I speaking Polish in my old house. I learn English before I come here, but hard.’ I snuggled into him, as he looked like he might cry, and he cuddled me, holding on so tightly that I struggled to breathe. I let him squeeze me, though, for as long as I could bear it before I had to wriggle out of his clutches. Yet again, I had found people who needed me. They were far away from home, maybe even further than I had come, and they possessed a sadness that I seemed to have a cat’s sense for these days.
   Bringing me back to the present, the smaller child started pawing at me then, with his grubby hands, and although I didn’t mind, I made a note that I would need a good wash when I finally got out of there.
   I hadn’t had much contact with small children. When I lived with Margaret, there was a young girl who visited from time to time and she was fun, always wanting to play with me and feed me food from her plate, but that was my only experience. Then when I started my nomadic existence and I met other cats, one of the suggestions was that I should find a family with children. They suggested that it was the most fun, like having friends – but friends who fed you and loved you and looked after you and played with you. In this flat, I felt I was getting that.
   Although I was fond of Claire and Jonathan, I couldn’t pretend that they gave me all I wanted. Yes I was fed and fussed sometimes, but I was also left on my own. It had vaguely occurred to me at this point that it might seem my doorstep antics could lead me into a bit of a pickle, but you see, I did, to a point, have a plan.
   I couldn’t rely just on Claire. I didn’t know that she was on her own when I had chosen her house – I had been expecting at least two people. And when I went into Jonathan’s house, I had been expecting a family, not a grumpy single man, so that didn’t turn out as I’d planned either. I was worried that my home life was still too precarious and that had led me here. It all made perfect sense in my head. It was like the number 22 flats could be my daytime homes, and the other houses my evening abodes. I was sure I could make it work and I was determined to do so.
   So I rolled onto my back to let Aleksy tickle my tummy, and I flipped my tail up in delight when I was on all fours again. Afterwards, Aleksy wanted me to hide under the chair and jump out at him. I wasn’t sure why this made him and Thomasz so happy, but I was pleased to do it. I then pretended I was chasing an invisible bird which seemed to make both boys shriek with laughter.
   After playing for a bit, Franceska returned and picked up the younger boy.
   ‘The phone number no work. Maybe they change it without changing the tag.’ She looked thoughtful. ‘Thomasz, sleeping time.’ She took him down the corridor, and returned a little later without him. I heard him crying a bit, before going quiet. Aleksy was drawing something at the coffee tableand I sat on the sofa, not sure of my next move but feeling quite comfortable.
   ‘So, Aleksy, Thomasz sleeping, we do our English,’ she said.
   ‘OK, Mamma.’
   ‘How old are you?’ she asked. I watched them both as they began their conversation, my head going back and forth between them.
   ‘Six. And Thomasz is two.’
   ‘Very good. Where you live?’
   ‘London. We from Poland but it is far away now.’ He looked a bit sad, and I saw Franceska’s eyes darken.
   ‘We go home some time,’ she said, quietly.
   ‘Pappa say this is our home,’ Aleksy replied.
   ‘Yes, maybe we have two homes,’ she said, trying to sound bright. I wanted to tell him what a good idea that was, like me, so I miaowed.
   ‘Ha, the cat makes loud noises.’
   ‘The cat called Alfie.’
   ‘Alfie?’ Aleksy repeated it slowly, as if he was trying the sounds out. I wondered at how hard it must be, to have to come and learn a different language, when he can’t have been speaking at all for long.
   ‘Yes and maybe he visit a lot?’ She looked at me questioningly, and I put my head to one side to try to tell her that, yes, I would visit a lot.
   ‘Mama, what if I don’t like school?’ Aleksy’s big brown eyes filled with tears.
   ‘You will, and it might feel hard at first but you will be OK.’
   ‘OK.’
   ‘We all have to be brave now, Pappa has good job here, and he can make things good for us if we all try hard to it.’
   ‘OK. I miss Pappa.’
   ‘He has to work very much but soon we will see him more. He is doing this for us.’
   She went over and sat down next to Aleksy. He had drawn a picture of a house. It wasn’t the house that we were in, though. It was a funny looking building, with many windows.
   ‘I miss our old place too,’ Franceska said, softly, as she stroked his hair. ‘But we will love it here. We just need to be very brave.’ And I wondered who she was trying to convince; him or herself.
   I was unable to move; watching the mother and son together, I felt like crying myself. I was seeing people trying so hard, learning that life could be really difficult and upsetting for humans as well as cats.
   Suddenly, Franceska got up.‘Right, we make some food. Aleksy, come help and you can give to Alfie.’
   He cheered up at this idea, and followed his mum into the kitchen. I went, too, and watched as she got some sardines out of the fridge and put them on a plate.
   ‘Yum,’ I thought to myself, this was a treat. Salmon, prawns and now sardines. I really had chosen the perfect street to live in.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_018.jpg]
   Chapter Seventeen
   I hadn’t considered the logistics of the flat. There was no cat flap, and only one entrance. There was a small back garden but that was accessed from the side of the house and again was shared with next door. The only way to get out of 22B was to go back through the front door, the way I’d come in. Which wasn’t that easy, as the door was shut. I had to figure it out. In the meantime, I ate lots of sardines, drank water and played with Aleksy, who seemed a bit happier now. Although most of his toys weren’t exactly designed for cats, we chased a small ball around, which seemed to make him happy. More and more, I understood all the fuss about small children; when they laughed, they made you want to laugh, and their happiness was the most infectious thing I’d encountered. Although, on the flip side, he was quite demanding; not letting me have any time to rest, so I was getting pretty tired. This was a new experience to me, and as much as I was enjoying it, it was exhausting at the same time.
   Thomasz, the little one, soon woke up and cried; Franceska went to get him and then brought him back into the living room, where she gave him a bottle filled with milk and sat on the sofa with him. I realised that I really needed to get back to my other homes so I could check on both Claire and Jonathan, and that in order to do so, I would have to make them understand that I needed to leave. After Thomasz finished his drink, I miaowed loudly and then walked down the stairs and stood by the front door.
   ‘Oh goodness, you need getting out,’ Franceska said, as she carried Thomasz downstairs after me. Aleksy followed too. She opened the front door and I turned to face them, to say goodbye properly. I tried to convey with my eyes that I would return, and I purred as well, to tell them I’d had a lovely time. Aleksy leant down and kissed my head. I licked his nose, which made him giggle. Thomasz, who I hadn’t heard speak, shouted, ‘Cat,’ and the other two laughed.
   ‘We must tell Pappa that this his first proper English word,’ Franceska said. ‘Alfie, you are clever, you gave Thomasz his first English word.’ She looked delighted, and I felt very proud. They all stepped outside with me. The sun was still shining brightly and the front lawn was invitinglyhot. Just as we all started walking towards the shared gate, the door to 22A opened and Polly emerged. She looked flustered, as she tried to yank a pram out of the small door. I could hear the baby crying from inside.
   ‘Here, I help.’ Franceska put Thomasz down and he immediately stood up and walked over to his brother. Franceska pulled the folded pram, which was still far too big, out of the door and put it up in one swift move.
   ‘Thank you,’ Polly said. ‘I find it hard to manoeuvre it here.’ She smiled, a little sadly. ‘It’s awfully big.’
   ‘Is big. Franceska.’ She held out her hand. Polly took it uncertainly. I noticed that she barely touched Franceska’s hand before moving hers quickly away.
   ‘Polly. I must just go and get …’ She disappeared back inside and came out carrying Henry and an oversized bag. She laid him in the pram and he started howling again. She rocked the pram a bit as Franceska peered in, and stroked his cheek. Polly looked terrified; the way she’d looked when she first saw me. Maybe she thought Franceska was going to kill the baby too.
   ‘Hello, baby. His name?’ Franceska looked at Polly and smiled.
   ‘Henry. Sorry, I’ve got an appointment with the health visitor and I’m late. Hopefully see you soon, bye.’ She turned to shut her front door, but not before I’d sneaked in.
   I woke up with no idea where I was. Gradually, I realised I was still in Polly’s flat. I padded around, there was no one here still. I was on their large grey sofa, which I must have fallen asleep on – exhausted after all those sardines and playing. I had looked round the flat when Polly shut the door behind me. It was the same size as upstairs, but it wasn’t as cosy or comfortable. In addition to the sofa and one armchair, there was a wooden trunk used as a coffee table, a mat thing on the floor with bits dangling from it, which I thought must be Henry’s, and a very big TV on the wall. Apart from that, the walls were bare and I wondered whether they didn’t have any pictures or just hadn’t got round to putting them up.
   The biggest bedroom had a big bed, and two small bedside tables but not much else and it was all very white. The smaller bedroom was, however, decorated for a child. There were brightly coloured pictures of animals all over it, and the cot had animals dangling above it. There was a multi-coloured rug on the floor and an abundance of soft toys. It felt as if it was the only colour in an otherwise colourless home. I thought it was quite strange; and had a sense that there was something else going on here, I just didn’t know what.
   I wondered what time it was– time for me to make a move. But as I looked for a way out, I realised, with a feeling of sudden panic, that I was trapped again, with no obvious escape. There was no one here to help me, so how was I supposed to get out? If only the living room window had been left open a crack, I could have squeezed through it. However, no one in this street ever left their windows open if they weren’t home. Panic began to mount; what if they’d gone away? No one knew I was here – was I going to die here? After such a long and treacherous journey, was it really going to come to this? I felt my breathing increase with fear.
   Just as I was imagining being left here forever, with no food, water or company, I heard the door open and Matt, Polly and the pram entered. The pram was almost as big as the flat, so Polly had to walk in, followed by Matt, followed by the pram.
   ‘This pram is too big, I can’t manoeuvre it,’ Polly snapped, almost crying.
   ‘We’ll go at the weekend and get something more manageable, babe, it’s fine.’ Henry was sleeping and they left him in the pram in the hallway and went into the kitchen. The door had slammed shut too quickly for me to get out, plus my interest was pricked now, so I followed them.
   ‘Oh God, how did you get in?’ Polly said, looking upset.
   ‘Hi, again,’ Matt bent down to stroke me. ‘Would you like a drink?’ I licked my lips and he laughed as he poured me a saucer of milk.
   ‘Matt, should you be encouraging him?’ she asked. ‘I don’t want him to think he can come here all the time.’
   ‘It’s just milk, and anyway, he obviously visits here, so we might as well make him welcome.’
   ‘OK, if you’re sure,’ Polly sounded unconvinced but she didn’t argue. ‘What about his owners?’
   ‘Polly, he’s only been here twice, so don’t worry. He must go back home after he leaves us. Anyway, how was the health visitor?’ Matt asked.
   ‘Not like our old one. She was really unfriendly, obviously far too busy to listen to me, and she got rid of me as soon as she could. She knew that Henry was premature, and therefore very delicate, but she just dismissed me.’
   ‘But he is fine now, Polly, you know that don’t you?’ Matt’s voice was gentle; comforting.
   ‘I really couldn’t cope. Which is why I sat in the park with Henry until you’d finished work. I didn’t know what to do.’ Her beautiful face clouded and she burst into tears. Matt looked stricken too.
   ‘It’ll get better, Pol, honestly. I’m sorry, but you know I can introduce you to some of the wives of the guys from work and maybe we’ll research some baby groups.’
   ‘I don’t know if I can. I can’tbreathe, Matt, sometimes I think I can’t breathe.’ Polly’s breathing sounded heavy, as if to illustrate the point. Her eyes were laden with tears; she was clearly shaken. I looked at her and realised that this was serious, there was something wrong with this woman and I could see it, but it seemed Matt couldn’t. Or perhaps he just wouldn’t. I wasn’t sure exactly what was upsetting Polly but instinctively I knew it was something to do with Henry. You hear about it in the cat world, sometimes cats give birth and then have problems bonding with their offspring. I wasn’t sure but I felt that maybe that was what I was seeing here. Even if I was wrong, I knew, deep down, that Polly needed help. ‘It’s just the upheaval, we’ll get things sorted.’ Just then, a loud wail came from the hallway. Polly looked at her watch.
   ‘It’s time for his feed.’ She walked towards the pram and I scrambled between her legs, hoping to get to the front door. She looked at me and leant over the pram and awkwardly opened it. I tried to give her my warmest look, but she didn’t seem to notice. She was already wearily lifting Henry out of the pram, and then, without a glance in my direction, she shut the door on me. At least I was outside the flat now though.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_019.jpg]
   Chapter Eighteen
   As I made my way down the street, I wondered who I should go to first. I didn’t know what the time was; it was still light, but as Matt had returned from work, I expected the others to be home. I thought I should really check on Jonathan, as he had been in a bit of a state when he left today, and it was his first day in his new job. I felt awful turning up yet again without a present – after all, the dead mouse and bird had helped us to bond, so I decided that I would go out later and get him a little something, just to acknowledge his new job. I found him in the kitchen when I entered through the cat flap (how I wished every house had one).
   ‘Hey, Alfie,’ he said, unexpectedly warmly.
   I purred.
   ‘Right, well, today wasn’t as hideous as I thought it would be. In fact, the shitty job isn’t that shitty, and the company was nice. So, to celebrate, I bought us both sushi. I mean, I’m not sure cats eat rice, but I got you some sashimi.’ I had no idea what he was talking about but he took some trays out of a brown paper bag and I saw it was fish. Uncooked fish. He laid some out on a plate for me, and put the rest in the fridge. I looked at him questioningly.
   ‘I’m going to the gym, so I’ll eat when I get back.’ I miaowed in thanks and started to tuck in. I loved this sashimi and I hoped that Jonathan would get it for me again. I felt that being with Jonathan was becoming a fine dining experience and I hoped that he wouldn’t suddenly stop and give me the same tinned stuff that Claire did.
   ‘Don’t get too used to it,’ he said. ‘It’s only for special occasions.’ Hmmm, he really did have a knack of reading my mind.
   As I was eating, Jonathan got changed and went to the gym, so I rushed over to see Claire.
   Claire was in the living room watching television when I arrived. She didn’t look sad any more – maybe this was the new her.
   ‘Hi Alfie, I was just wondering where you were yet again.’ She fussed me. I purred with joy. Claire and I had developed our relationship in a way that was harmonious and beneficial to us both. Claire’s was still my number one home, not just because it was my first, but also because she and I had established our connection very strongly and quickly. I still didn’t always know where I was with Jonathan, although I sensed, secretly, that deep down he liked me. And the number 22 flats were still early days. But Claire and I were family, and I loved her for it.
   ‘Right Alfie, I am going to get changed.’ I looked at her questioningly. Where was she going? ‘I’m off to the local gym, I’ve decided that it’s time I started taking better care of myself.’ She smiled to herself as she made her way upstairs.
   What was it with these humans and this gym thing? I wondered if she would go to the same place that Jonathan sometimes went to, and part of me hoped that she wouldn’t bump into him. Not yet, anyway, while they both thought I was their cat. That could be awkward.
   Instead of worrying about that, I realised that I needed to go for a bit of a walk myself if I was going to work off the day’s food. On my way out, I saw Tiger.
   ‘Fancy coming for a walk?’ I asked her.
   ‘I was going to have a lazy evening, then maybe go out later,’ she said.
   ‘Come on, please. I need to get a present for Jonathan.’ In the end, I persuaded her to come with me by promising her first choice of any prey we caught. Women!
   We took the scenic route to the local park, meeting some nice cats on the way, and some not so nice dogs. One large dog, probably twice the size of me, wasn’t on his lead. He started barking loudly and ran over to me, snarling aggressively and baring his sharp teeth. Tiger, who was more feisty than me, hissed at him, but I tried not to antagonise him. I still felt afraid but now I was better at dealing with danger, so I turned, calling Tiger, ran asfast as my little legs would take me, and shot up the nearest tree. Luckily Tiger was as quick as me and she followed me up. The dog stood at the bottom of the tree, barking furiously until his owner pulled him away. We were exhausted as we caught our breath.
   ‘Alfie, I told you we should have stayed home,’ Tiger admonished.
   ‘Yes, but then the running away is actually very good exercise for us,’ I retorted.
   On the way back, I remembered that I was supposed to be getting a gift for Jonathan. As luck would have it, two nice juicy mice were hanging out by the bins of one of the houses as we made our way back. It was lucky that I wasn’t remotely hungry, otherwise I would have been tempted to munch them myself; I saw Tiger polish one of them off almost in one go.
   I left the mouse by the front door for him, and then I wandered around aimlessly. I passed some relaxing time with Tiger in her garden, before deciding to go back to Claire’s.
   Claire was all red and glistening when she got in. It wasn’t her best look, and she certainly didn’t smell very good, but she seemed happy.
   ‘Goodness me, Alfie, I’m exhausted. But then, I feel better now, doing exercise. They say it’s all about endorphins, and I have to say there must be something in it.’ As she said this, she picked me up and spun me round, giggling all the time. I tried not to mind, because I knew she was being loving, but she really did need a wash.
   ‘OK, time for me to take a shower.’ I felt relieved. I decided that this was a good time for me to give myself a thorough wash too.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_020.jpg]
   Chapter Nineteen
   The next morning I breakfasted with Claire, and then, while she was getting ready for work, I went to see Jonathan.
   My morning routine was hectic but I wanted them both to see me before they went to work, so I ate quickly and didn’t even have time to clean my whiskers before popping to my next house. It was important to me to give enough attention to both Claire and Jonathan. I wanted them both to think of me as ‘their’ cat. Jonathan was just about to walk out of the door as I walked in.
   ‘Oh, I wondered where you were. Thanks for the present, but you really shouldn’t have. I mean,really. I’m sure there are many of us who would be happy to have you rid the street of all mice, but I’d rather they didn’t end up on my door mat.’ Although he chastised me, I still decided that deep down – perhaps very deep down – he appreciated my gifts. After all, he hadn’t thrown me out again, had he? I am a cat and I couldn’t bring presents like humans did; Margaret liked to give flowers to her friends, so I was doing the best I could, and perhaps Jonathan understood that better than he let on. I looked at him, licked my lips and miaowed.
   ‘I’ve left you a bowl with leftovers in from last night. I have to get to work but I’ll see you when I get home. Hopefully.’ He reached down and tickled me under my chin, which I loved. I let out my loudest purr and he smiled in satisfaction. When he’d left I ignored the food, then gave myself another proper clean and set off to go and see the number 22 flats, reminding myself not to get stuck inside today. After all, there would be delicious food waiting for me on my return here, which I didn’t want to go to waste.
   I was in luck. It was still early, but Franceska was in the front garden with the boys. The man was there with them too. They looked as if they were about to go out.
   ‘Alfie,’ Aleksy shrieked, and ran over to me. I rolled onto my back so he could tickle my tummy.
   ‘Oh, he likes the cat,’ the man, Thomasz, said.
   ‘Yes, he like Alfie very much.’
   ‘I have to go to work now,kochanie. I’ll try to get back before tonight’s shift.’
   ‘I love you. I wish it not such a long day for you.’
   ‘I know but that’s restaurants for you. Long hours and lots of food.’ He laughed as he patted his tummy.
   ‘I’m just miss home, Thomasz.’
   ‘I know, but it gets better.’
   ‘You promise?’ she asked.
   ‘Yeskochanie. But for now I need to go earn money.’
   ‘English. Is darling.’
   ‘It don’t sound right, you are mykochanie, no darling.’ He laughed, kissed his wife and then both children before he left. Franceska looked tired as she sat on the step and watched the boys playing. I sat next to her.
   ‘At least is sunny. Before I move to England I think it rains always.’ I snuggled into her. We sat in companionable silence for a short while. Aleksy was making Thomasz laugh about something and it was such a lovely scene. I felt there was a sadness here too. It seemed that in very different ways, the homes I’d chosen – Claire’s, Jonathan’s, Polly’s, and here – all had this one thing in common; loneliness. And I think that was why I had been so drawn to them. I knew that these people needed my love and kindness; my support and affection. With each passing day my confidence in this increased.
   I looked at Polly and Matt’s door and realised that the answer was right in front of me. Franceska needed a friend, as did Polly. After all, Claire had been so much happier when she met Tasha. Goodness, it was so simple. I just had to figure out how to do it.
   Franceska stood up and rallied the children.
   ‘Come, boys, we go get our shoes and then we go to park.’
   They went into the flat. I wondered what I could do, knowing I had to act quickly. I scratched at Polly’s door and miaowed very loudly. I yelped, and then I yowled. I’d lose my voice if I didn’t get her attention soon.
   After a while, she opened the door and looked at me in surprise.
   ‘What’s wrong?’ she asked, her eyes full of concern. I kept yowling. She bent down. ‘Are you hurt?’ I carried on, willing Franceska to hurry up. Polly clearly didn’t know what to do with me and I felt a little bit guilty for distressing her, but it was for a good cause. ‘Oh God, I can’t bear it. I don’t know what to do. Please, cat, please be quiet.’ Polly looked so desperate I almost stopped, but I had to keep going.
   Just as I was about to run out of steam, the door opened and Franceska and the boys came out.
   ‘What is this noise?’ Franceska asked.
   ‘I don’t know what’s wrong with him,’ Polly replied. I fell silent. I had to have a bit of a lie down to recover my breath. Aleksy came over and tickled me and I snuggled gratefully into him.
   ‘He seems OK now?’ Franceska said, looking uncertain.
   ‘But he was making such an awful noise. You’d have thought he was being tortured.’ I wanted to say ‘thank you’. I was clearly as good as any actor on TV.
   ‘Is he your cat?’ Polly asked.
   ‘No, he visits us. I tried to call the number on him collar but it doesn’t work.’
   ‘I don’t want a cat. I mean, I’ve got enough to cope with.’ Polly suddenly burst into tears. Then a wail started up from inside. ‘Oh God, Henry’s asleep in his pram. Or he was.’ She went inside and came back trying to pull the oversized pram out of the house. Franceska went to help her. When they were both outside, Polly resumed her tears.
   ‘Is OK. Sit down a minute.’ Franceska pulled her down to the front step. ‘Aleksy, push the pram a bit for baby.’ Aleksy did as he was asked, and suddenly the baby stopped crying.
   ‘Mamma, I made him shush,’ Aleksy said, gleefully, and even Polly managed to laugh.
   ‘I’m sorry,’ she repeated.
   ‘You no sleep?’ Franceska asked.
   ‘No. God, never. He – Henry – doesn’t sleep. Not through the night, only naps in the day, then he cries. And cries and cries.’
   ‘Is Polly, yes?’ Polly nodded. ‘Is OK, I know how it is; I have two. Aleksy he never sleep. Thomasz is better.’
   ‘Where are you from?’
   ‘Poland.’
   ‘We’re from Manchester.’ Franceska looked blank. ‘It’s in the north of England. My husband, Matt, got a job here and said it was too good not to take. It is a good job, but I miss home.’
   ‘Me too. My husband, same. He is chef and here in London he gets job in very good restaurant. Building better life for us, sure, but is scary and lonely.’
   ‘Yes, it’s very lonely. Matt, well, he works long hours even though we’ve only been here a week. I’ve taken Henry out to the park, and to see the health visitor – which is nothing like it was at home. I haven’t met anyone else.’
   ‘What is a health visitor?’
   ‘Oh, here, when you have a baby, it’s someone you visit if you have concerns. In Manchester they were lovely, but here they didn’t have time for me. She seemed so busy and when I told her about him not sleeping, she just said that some babies don’t sleep.’
   ‘They don’t, maybe. But it doesn’t sound helpful. Aleksy no sleep, but you know in the end, he was very hungry. He feed all the time. So I buy this night time milk for babies and he drink that and sleep a bit more.’
   ‘Henry’s always hungry but I didn’t want to give him formula until he was one. I wanted to feed exclusively.’
   ‘What is this?’
   ‘You know, breast only.’
   ‘Oh, me too, but I was going, how do you say it, round the corner.’
   ‘Round the bend. I know. That’s exactly how I feel.’
   ‘Someone tells me that the best thing you can do for your child is be capable to looking after them properly. And that means you sleep. So I feed Aleksy in the day and then I give him this at night.’
   I was listening intently to their exchange. These two women were fragile in their own ways, Franceska, because she was in a strange country and didn’t know anyone, and Polly because she had also moved, and hadn’t been sleeping. I could feel that a friendship would begin to form here, and I felt as if I was responsible for it, if I did say so myself. Even if it meant I had to scare Polly half to death in order to do it. These women, both with boys, both lonely, and lost, were perfect for each other. I thought it was about time I reminded them of my presence, so I miaowed.
   ‘Oh Alfie, you still here,’ Franceska said. Polly reached out and stroked me half-heartedly. It was a very limp stroke. ‘He was in our flat the other day. I was worried, I heard that cats can kill babies.’ I blanched again; I really didn’t appreciate her telling people that she thought I was a killer.
   ‘Oh, I never hear that. I like the cats. This one very smart too.’
   ‘How can you tell?’
   ‘He kind of introduced us, yes? I say we all go to the shop now to buy some milk for baby and then maybe we walk to the park and Henry he will sleep, yes?’
   ‘Oh, that would be so nice. Thank you, really, I’d love some female company. And you’re right, we’ll try the formula. I almost feel I have nothing left to lose.’
   ‘Good. I need the company too. My boys are lovely but I need the grown up. Sorry my English is bad.’
   ‘Not at all, it’s great! Blimey, I can’t speak any other languages.’ And as they chatted on, I could sense a friendship had been sealed.
   I watched them all get ready to go off. Thomasz had been reluctantly strapped into a pushchair, Aleksy walked next to it, Polly pushed her giant pram, and Henry was still not crying. Polly was so tall, thin and blonde and Franceska was what I would call sturdy. She wasn’t fat but whereas Polly looked as if she would fall over if I so much as brushed her legs, Franceska looked like she could withstand any storm. But she was very lovely with her dark, short gleaming hair, and brown eyes, which lit up when she smiled. She had one of the nicest smiles I had ever seen.
   Before they left the garden, they stopped and said goodbye to me. Aleksy asked me to come back soon, and I purred, because I would come and see the lovely boy; I felt that he would be my friend.
   They definitely looked like opposites as they started down the road together; one so fair, one so dark, one tall, one short, but I knew instinctively that they would fit together, and I did feel that, however unwittingly, I had helped with this. I didn’t mean to boast but I did feel that credit should be given to me.
   I was intrigued by these women’s stories and I really hoped to spend more time with them, together. I liked the idea of us all hanging out on the front lawn, I would never be bored with that. And my friendship with Aleksy and Thomasz would grow because every little boy deserved a cat. It was a good day all round. Friendships had begun, and who knew where they would take us?
   [Ea?oeiea: i_021.jpg]
   Chapter Twenty
   Being a doorstep cat was not for the faint-hearted.
   As the weeks passed, I was very busy as I tried to juggle my four homes. I was beginning to learn that being a cat with four families wasn’t as easy as I had first thought it would be. It was rewarding, but hard work. I was starting to devise a schedule, but it was proving tricky.
   Claire was becoming more relaxed with every passing day and I knew this was the healing process, because of course, I’d been through it myself. I could see in her what I felt in me.
   Not that you ever become completely healed, you understand. There will always be a part of you that is still healing, still hurting, but that becomes a part of your character and you learn to live with it. That’s what I think happens, anyway, because that’s how it feels to me. But I loved to see Claire smiling and looking so much better. She was putting on a bit of weight too, she didn’t look so much like a scrawny sparrow any more. She had more colour in her cheeks and she was getting better looking by the day.
   There had been a lot of women at Jonathan’s house. Although they were not appearing quite as frequently any more, there was still an alarming number, it seemed to me. But to his credit, now that he was working, he was more sensible with his time; going to bed early and either working in the evenings, or going to the gym. He was looking better for it too; he was quite handsome to start with, but he was even more so now he didn’t scowl quite so much.
   I had been splitting my evenings between Claire and Jonathan so far. So long as I saw them both at some point, they seemed happy. On the whole, Claire would arrive home from work earlier than Jonathan, so we would dine together, and we would hang out for a bit. We cuddled while she read a book, watched TV, or chatted on the phone with a glass of wine, and then I’d take that as my cue to visit Jonathan.
   I would head off to greet him on his return from work. He often worked in the evenings, which wasn’t much fun for me, so I had a new routine at night time. I’d go out for a long walk or run to get some exercise. I had put on weight, what with all the extra meals, but I was still far from being as fat as the ginger cat a few doors down, who could barely move and would easily be outmanoeuvredby any mouse.
   I would go and see Tiger, and we would sometimes hang out with some of the neighbourhood cats; even the mean ones seemed to be used to me, now. After socialising, I would decide where to sleep. I alternated between Claire’s and Jonathan’s, but the problem was that both of them seemed to quite like to see me first thing in the morning. If I slept at Claire’s, I would wake at the same time as her and scoot over to go and see Jonathan before he left for work, and vice versa. It could be exhausting, but I tried my best to fit everyone in. Keeping them happy was far from an easy task though, and my life was incredibly complex.
   During the day, when Claire and Jonathan were at work, I would go to the number 22 flats. This was perfect for me. I would often stand at Franceska’s door and miaow, and after a while, either she or Aleksy would let me in. They would give me fish, normally sardines, but the best thing was that Aleksy would play with me, and we would have so much fun. I would roll onto my back and he would tickle my tummy, which had become my new favourite game. The household was happy for the most part. Sometimes when Thomasz was napping and Aleksy was playing I would find Franceska in the kitchen, leaning against the counter and looking as if she was miles away. I knew she was missing her home still, although she was the most resilient of the adults I spent time with because she mainly hid it, and made sure her house was full of laughter. But I often thought her head was sometimes in Poland, even if her body was here; the way that when I had lived on the streets, my head and heart were far away, with Margaret and Agnes, even though I didn’t quite know where they were.
   One weekend, I was over at Franceska’s flat. Claire had gone out for the day with Tasha, Jonathan had gone to meet friends for something he called ‘brunch’, so I went to Franceska’s house and her husband, the big Thomasz, let me in. They all made their usual fuss of me and he seemed like a very nice man. He played with the children, while Franceska cooked a big lunch for them all. He was very affectionate, both with her and the boys and I could see that although she found life hard sometimes, she was surrounded by love. It made me feel better because she deserved it very much. It was such a warm, loving family, it tickled my whiskers.
   Sometimes I saw Polly and baby Henry with Franceska. As it was summer, they would often be on the front lawn. They had taken to having coffee together while the boys all sat on a blanket. Well, Henry would lie on the blanket, but he didn’t cry as much and he seemed to find the older boys’ presence calming. They would shake rattles at him, and they even managed to make him giggle quite a lot. Polly still seemed very uptight though, and I rarely saw her smile. There was something unnerving about the way she was.
   Not only did the women look different from each other, but also as mothers they couldn’t be further apart. Franceska was so calm with her boys, and they were such happy children. Polly was wound up tightly and she held Henry as if he was made of glass. She seemed so awkward, even when she was feeding him, and she seemed to cry as much as Claire had in the early days. Franceska kept saying it was tiredness, and that was why she was so emotional, but I wondered if it really could be that. Since giving the baby the formula he was apparently sleeping more. Not a huge amount, but enough to make a difference, so surely she should be better?
   Franceska would often take both of them into her flat where they would feed the boys, and she would try to get food into Henry. He seemed happier when he was there, as well. He didn’t cry as much and he smiled and laughed; I wondered sometimes if Polly noticed. She was so sad and I didn’t know if she even registered half of what was going on. I was more worried about her than I was about any of the others, but despite that, I had decided to stop going to her flat – it just wasn’t a good idea. Polly tolerated me, but she still treated me with suspicion, although I got the feeling that she needed me more than my other families. I just didn’t quite know why.
   I watched these humans, who were all so different in many ways to my Margaret. Not only were they considerably younger, and less wrinkly, but they were unlike her in other ways too. Claire was blossoming, and had almost totally changed from the thin, shaggy, crying woman I first met. She still had moments of sadness, normally when it was just the two of us, but they were getting fewer and fewer. Jonathan was still complex, but he was also becoming happier; I think it wasn’t just the job, but the new friends he was making at work. Not just women with big boobs and shiny hair. However, I still thought he was too solitary. He didn’t have people round to the big, empty house apart from the women. He did go out a bit, about as much as Claire, but still, he had moments of looking as if he had lost something. It was how I’d looked when I woke up every day just after Agnes died. I would wake up and before I remembered what had happened I would look for her. It seemed that Jonathan was looking for someone who wasn’t there, too.
   Franceska was more like Margaret than the others; she seemed so solid and sensible, and although she was obviously missing home, she seemed the most sorted out of everyone. Polly was the opposite. So fragile that she looked as if she would break at any time, although sometimes I wondered if she was already broken.
   Each of them needed me in their own ways and I vowed every day that I would be there, and I would help them all.
   I had survived, and now I had to help others survive, too.
   The problem was that my lifestyle was so busy I couldn’t be in four places at once, but if my plan was to work I really had to be.
   ‘It’s hard work,’ I told Tiger.
   ‘Having four homes would be. Four sets of humans to keep happy.’ Tiger shuddered. ‘My one home is enough for me, although I understand.’
   ‘I can’t be alone again. I have to make sure that there will always be someone to take care of me, Tiger.’
   ‘I know. And anyway most cats think loyalty is overrated.’
   ‘But I’m fiercely loyal; just to four different families. I have to learn to spread myself thinly.’
   ‘Alfie, stop being dramatic. My owners are married, and although they don’t have children, if anything happens to them … Well, before meeting you, I hadn’t even thought about it.’
   ‘I hope what happened to me doesn’t happen to you, but you’re lucky because if it does, you’ll have me to take care of you.’
   ‘Thanks Alfie, you’re a good friend.’
   ‘Tiger, I wouldn’t want anyone, cat or human, to go through what I’ve been through. I’ve learnt the importance of compassion the hard way. I know what it’s like when there is none. And although I was lucky to find some along my journey and in my homes now, I know how incredibly crucial itis to our survival. For all of us.’
   ‘You’ll never be alone again now,’ Tiger pointed out, kindly.
   It was true, compassion needed others. That was my lesson. It was through the compassion of other cats as well as other humans that I survived after Margaret died. It made me realise, life was a funny thing; as much as I would welcome being reunited with Agnes and Margaret, there was a part of me that wanted to survive, to carry on living, and I didn’t understand it.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_022.jpg]
   Chapter Twenty-One
   I was asleep at Claire’s, on her sofa in the living room. I wasn’t necessarily banned from sleeping on the sofa, but Claire did try, nicely, to encourage me to use my cat bed. However, the evening sun had been streaming through the window, making the spot I settled on deliciously warm and pretty irresistible – just what I needed after a difficult afternoon. I’d come home from Franceska’s house feeling hungry. I’d played with Aleksy for hours but there had been no sardines, no drink, nothing. Franceska hadn’t been as cheerful as normal; she seemed distracted, and although I tried to spend a bit of time with her on her own, she didn’t seem to notice me. I felt a little bit upset at being ignored. I knew that humans had problems, but that shouldn’t be an excuse for ignoring me – after all, I was there to help her when things were difficult! And there was no sign or sound of Polly and Henry. They returned home just as I was leaving, along with Matt. He was pushing the pram and she seemed a little bit more relaxed for once, but they were deep in conversation and they didn’t seem to notice me. It seemed I had become invisible to the adults of the number 22 flats.
   And that was just the start of it. As afternoon turned into evening, things got worse.
   Claire had been at home getting ready to go out, so although she had put some cat food and milk out for me, she didn’t have time for a chat, or any affection at all. She seemed very happy, and preoccupied with getting dressed up. She was wearing a very nice black dress and she put some high-heeled shoes by the front door. I’d never seen her wear heels that high, not even for work. She also spent ages on her hair, and putting lots of stuff on her face.
   When she had finished, I didn’t think she looked like my Claire any more.
   ‘Alfie, don’t wait up, I’m going out with the girls,’ she said, smiling, but she didn’t pick me up or stroke me; she probably thought I would mess up her dress with my cat hair. As if I would! I felt a little hurt again, although I knew it was selfish as I wanted her to be happy, so I tried to be glad for her. But I didn’t purr or even raise my whiskers for her when she left; I really did feel very down in the mouth.
   Bored and a bit lonely, I went to Jonathan’s but there was no sign of him. He hadn’t come back from work it seemed, and he hadn’t left me any food either. My empty breakfast dishes were still on the floor, just as I’d left them. Although I had still had enough to eat, I felt a bit disappointed, not just in the lack of food, but also the lack of attention.
   It made me realise that cats always need to have their wits about them. Just because I was no longer a homeless cat didn’t mean that I could take anything for granted. People were far from stable and reliable. Of course I wasn’t trying to exaggerate, I knew they were still there to take care of me, but I also needed to be more self-reliant and also perhaps a little less sensitive. After all, I’d been a street cat for a while, so there was no reason for me to have reverted to being quite so soft.
   But I still was. And I felt a little bit lost. I went for a walk, but I didn’t feel like making small talk with the other cats, not even Tiger. I was feeling sorry for myself. I wandered around Jonathan’s house, including the rooms that he never used, but that wasn’t much fun. I thought about hunting for a gift for him but I couldn’t be bothered; why reward him forhis neglect? I felt a little bit sad as I decided to go back to Claire’s, and that’s when I fell asleep on the warm spot on the sofa.
   I was woken up by the sound of a key turning in the front door and giggling. I looked outside, where it was pitch black. Claire came into the living room, being held up by a man I’d never seen. I immediately stood up and raised my tail in suspicion, ready to rescue her, as a light flicked on.
   ‘Oh Alfie’s here, Alfie my lovely,’ Claire’s words sounded funny and slurry as I darted out of her way. I knew she was drunk. She wasn’t quite as bad, or mean, as the drunk people I had met on the street but she definitely shared common traits with them. If I let her pick me up, she wouldprobably drop me, knowing my luck.
   ‘Right, well, Claire, you’re home safe and sound, so I better go.’ The man shuffled a bit, looking as if he wasn’t quite sure what to do.
   ‘Nooo Joe, stay for coffee.’ She burst out laughing, as if this was the funniest thing she had ever said. I didn’t think it was, though.
   ‘Thanks, but I’d better go, Claire. Honestly, you’ll thank me in the morning.’ The man looked quite nice, but he had hair the same colour as the fat ginger cat down the road.
   She flung herself at him, literally, and they both fell backwards onto the sofa. I bolted swiftly, only narrowly escaping getting squashed. Claire giggled again and Joe seemed to struggle a bit to free himself from her grip.
   ‘Claire, you’re a bit drunk,’ he persisted; he sounded a bit exasperated. It looked like that was an understatement. ‘I really ought to go but I promise I’ll call you.’
   ‘Please don’t go,’ she slurred, but he got up, kissed her on her cheek and let himself out. ‘Oh God, I’m such a loser,’ Claire cried as soon as the door closed. Alarmingly, she started sobbing like the old days. Then, instead of going to bed, she just curled up on the sofa and started snoring.
   Although I had seen this behaviour, I had no idea what to do, and actually there was nothing I could do but curl up next to her and snore along with her.
   She woke up the next morning, still on the sofa, and she really looked a mess.
   ‘Oh my God,’ she said, clutching her hair. ‘What on earth did I do?’ She looked at me. ‘Oh Alfie, I’m sorry, I hope you’re OK?’ She tried to get up. ‘My head is agony.’ She fell back again. ‘Oh God, oh God,’ she repeated, clutching her head as she moaned. I started miaowing,to let her know I was hungry.
   ‘Oh God, Alfie, can you keep it down, you sound like a fog horn.’ I didn’t know what that was, so I continued miaowing, and I didn’t understand why she was like this. If this was the result of being drunk, then why on earth did humans do it?
   Eventually she got up again and went to the kitchen. She drank a glass of water and then another one straight away. She went to the fridge and got some food out for me, which made her turn a funny colour as she put it on a plate.
   ‘Oh no, I think I’m going to be sick,’ she said, as soon as she’d put it down. She rushed off. As I ate my breakfast, I didn’t really know what to think. It wasn’t a work day for Claire, which was probably lucky, as she looked dreadful. She returned looking pale, although she did have the remnants of the previous night’s make-up dotted around her face. She also smelt terrible (admittedly not as bad as the street drunks), although I accept that I have a heightened sense of smell, being a cat.
   ‘Oh Alfie, did that guy, Joe, come back here last night?’ I miaowed, hoping she would interpret that as a yes. ‘I just can’t remember. Oh no, he must hate me. I bet he can’t stand me now, and I quite liked him. Oh God, at my age I should know better. I am so embarrassed.’ I yelped really loudly. The last thing I ever wanted was to lose her now.
   ‘Not literally,’ she said, as if she understood me. ‘Sorry Alfie, but I’m going to bed and I think I’m going to stay there for the rest of the day.’ She left the room. I looked after her wistfully. My humans were complicated, that was for sure. I was beginning to feel as if I would never fully get to understand any of them.
   I went to Jonathan’s, as Claire was clearly not going to be any fun at all today, but he still wasn’t home. I wondered if he’d come home and then gone out early but my breakfast dishes were still on the floor; he clearly hadn’t thought about feeding me at all. I fleetingly wondered if I should worry, but then Jonathan wasn’t the sort of man you worried about. If I could take care of myself then he certainly could. But I didn’t like the fact that he hadn’t been home at all since he left for work in the morning. And I particularly didn’t like the fact that he hadn’t given me a second thought, otherwise he wouldn’t have made me miss two meals. I wondered what I could do to convey my anger to him.
   I was about to give up on him and leave. Obviously I couldn’t reward his behaviour with another gift, so I thought that if I walked out on him the way he walked out on me, then maybe he would understand what it felt like. But as I was about to head out, I heard the door open and in he walked, in his work clothes, but looking quite fresh regardless. Nothing like Claire, that was for sure.
   ‘Alfie, sorry,’ he said, petting me and smiling at me in a way I hadn’t quite seen him do before. ‘I hope you’re not too hungry – I didn’t expect to be gone so long.’ I miaowed angrily, in a way that said he certainly wasn’t forgiven, and yes, I was expecting him to be there for me; after all, he didn’t know I had already eaten.
   ‘Oh, Alfie, you’re a man of the world. You know how it is when you get lucky,’ he winked. I blinked, then looked at him through narrowed eyes. I didn’t know how it was. I certainly wasn’t that sort of cat. He laughed.
   ‘If I didn’t know better, I’d say you disapproved.’ He laughed again. His phone beeped. He read something and smiled. I wondered if he was still drunk like Claire had been last night, because he wasn’t himself. He definitely seemed happy, but maybe a little bit crazy. ‘Sorry, of course you’re hungry. I’ll get you some food.’ He looked a bit puzzled as he picked up my empty plates and then he fetched me some prawns. They might be one of my favourite things but I wasn’t going to be won over that easily.
   All the while I ate, he played with his phone. He would type something, it would beep and he’d smile and type something else. I actually found it all irritating; in my mood I would have preferred to dine in peace.
   ‘Alfie,’ he said finally. ‘I like the woman I went out with last night. I’ve known her for a while, although not well, but I saw her again last week. Anyway, she’s attractive, funny, smart and has a good job. I actually think I may be a bit “in like” with her.’ I refused to look at him and concentrated on my dwindling prawns.
   ‘Oh come on, you can’t be mad at me forever. Surely you can be happy for me?’ I felt my fur prick up as I wanted to tell him that I surely couldn’t, if it meant I was going to be forgotten about. I could really, if it meant he wasn’t sad any more, although I wasn’t ready to let him knowthat! ‘Look, this is why I didn’t want a cat. I’m free and easy and if I want to stay out, I should be able to. I don’t mind when you stay out all night, for God’s sake. I’m a grown up, Alfie.’ Still I didn’t turn round. ‘Oh, Alfie, just get over it. Next time I’m going out I’ll bring her back here.’ I turned around, but I didn’t give him a smile. ‘And why the hell am I apologising to a bloody cat?’ Jonathan looked bemused.
   I gave him an indignant look, then I stalked out of the cat flap. But as soon as I stood outside, I realised it was raining. I hadn’t thought about the weather, being too cross to do so, but what a predicament I’d put myself in. Claire was asleep, Jonathan was in the dog house, and so I had no alternative but to get wet, which I hated, and walk down the street to the flats at number 22.
   Feeling extremely disapproving of both Claire and Jonathan– Margaret had certainly never got up to such antics – I thought that perhaps it was time to step up my charm offensive with both Franceska and Polly. Maybe they would be more reliable.
   As luck would have it, I struck gold. Matt, Polly’s husband, was pushing the pram into the house as I arrived, allowing me to sneak in.
   ‘Oh, hello Alfie,’ he said, and I felt quite chuffed, both that he spoke to me and that I was in the dry. He took his shoes off and left the pram just inside the door. I purred.
   ‘Shush,’ he said, quietly. ‘I’ve just got Henry off to sleep. Polly is having a much-needed lie-in. Come in and I’ll get you a towel to dry you off and give you some milk.’ I followed him into their small, but very neat, kitchen. He grabbed a tea towel and rubbed me down which was very nice, before pulling some milk out of the fridge and filling the kettle. I felt companionship developing between us as he quietly put some milk in a bowl for me, giving me a gentle pat. I lapped the milk as quietly as I could while Matt made himself a drink. He took it through to the living room andI joined him. We sat, side by side, on the sofa. He picked up a book to read and I just sat, quietly, showing him that I was able to be a good cat. I curled up, and after a while I started dozing off. I was roused a short while later by Polly appearing.
   ‘How long did I sleep for? Where’s Henry?’ She sounded panicked.
   ‘It’s fine, darling. He’s asleep in the pram and you probably got a couple of hours’ kip.’
   ‘But doesn’t he need feeding?’
   ‘He had breakfast, and it’s not lunchtime yet. Pol, he’s over six months so he can probably start having more regular feeding times.’
   ‘That’s what the health visitor said. And Franceska.’
   ‘So they’re probably right, then. Can I make you a cup of tea?’
   ‘Thanks, that would be lovely.’ Matt got up and Polly sat down next to me.
   ‘Hello, cat,’ she said stiffly. I tried to raise my eyes; she knew my name. ‘Sorry, Alfie,’ she corrected. I was sure that I was getting quite good at communicating with these humans, but then I was getting a lot of practice. She reached over and lightly touched my fur. I stayed still. Polly seemed afraid of me, but then, she seemed afraid of everything. One observation I had made was that she was definitely afraid of her baby. She seemed terrified of tiny Henry.
   Matt returned with the tea and put it on the coffee table in front of her. He picked me up and sat down, putting me on his lap.
   ‘I hope that Henry isn’t allergic to his fur,’ Polly said.
   ‘Of course he isn’t. Mum had a cat and we were round there all the time.’
   ‘Oh yes, I’d forgotten,’ Polly replied. She looked vague. Matt’s brow creased and he didn’t look happy.
   ‘Polly, are you OK? I mean really? I know this move has been a huge upheaval and I didn’t realise I’d be working so much straight away, but I’m worried about you.’
   ‘I’m fine.’ She looked around the room with an expression on her face that seemed to say she had no idea where she was. It was still quite bare, the same as when they moved in. Apart from the sofa, chair and trunk table, the room was quite sparse. Even with the baby mat and toys on the floor it still didn’t seem like a home, nothing like next door. ‘It’s just hard and I’m tired,’ she continued. ‘I’m tired and I’m homesick and although I have Franceska now, I do feel lonely. I miss my family.’ It was the most I’d heard her say, even to Franceska.
   ‘I’ll do anything to help you,’ Matt said. ‘Maybe we can go home soon, would you like that? Or if you really want to, you and Henry can go and see your mum for a week. I could drive you up on Sunday and pick you up the following weekend.’ He looked a bit pleased with himself.
   ‘So you want to get rid of us, do you?’ Her voice was filled with panic.
   ‘No, I’d miss you both, of course, but I just thought you’d like to spend some time with your mum.’ Polly glared at Matt but further conversation was interrupted by Henry’s loud wails.
   ‘I’ll feed him.’
   ‘Do you want me to make up some baby rice or formula?’ Matt asked. He sounded very sad; defeated even.
   ‘No, my breasts are hurting. I’ll feed him.’ She disappeared and I could hear Henry’s wails all the way to the bedroom. I heard the door close and then it went quiet. Matt sighed, and looked as if he was far away. It was similar to the way that Franceska looked sometimes. He started stroking me absently, and although I knew he was thinking about other things, I enjoyed it all the same.
   After a while, Polly returned with Henry. She put him down on the mat and he started grabbing at his toys.
   ‘We need to encourage him to start sitting up on his own,’ she said.
   ‘OK, well I’ll put some cushions behind him.’ Matt started arranging cushions, he looked grateful for something to do. He then propped Henry up, coaxing him to try to sit by rattling toys in front of him. Henry liked this game and started giggling. Matt laughed, and even Polly smiled. I wished they would take a photo so they could look at it and remember that they were a happy family; because for that moment they looked like one.
   ‘Right, Pol, shall we go and get ourselves a smaller pushchair, so we can get rid of that bloody monster truck?’ Matt suggested, after Henry had given up with the sitting game and was lying on his back again, studying his feet.
   ‘Yes, we can walk down to that shop Franceska and I found the other day.’ She perked up a bit.
   ‘Shall I take him in the sling?’ Polly nodded and they started to busy themselves getting ready.
   I took this as my cue to leave. I watched them walk down the street and then I miaowed really loudly outside Franceska’s house. But there was no sign of anyone and there were no lights on in the house. It looked like they had gone out. It seemed everyone had somewhere to go but me.
   So instead, I went to visit Tiger. The community I was building wasn’t just made up of my new families, it also included fellow cats. Now, at last, if ever I was in need, I had a support network to fall back on and it was growing stronger by the minute. Not that I would ever be in trouble again, but just in case …
   ‘So what do you want to do?’ Tiger asked.
   ‘Let’s go to the pond by the park and look at our reflections.’ It was one of my favourite new pastimes. Tiger and I would stand on the bank, as close to the pond as we dared go, and we would look at ourselves in the water. We looked so funny as the water distorted us; it was a very pleasant way to spend the afternoon.
   We then explored the back gardens in the street, jumping fences and sheds and having a fun old time without any of the nonsense I’d been subjected to lately.
   ‘Oh, look at that funny small dog,’ Tiger pointed out. We hissed loudly at him, from our vantage point on a fence, and he yapped, running around in circles in his back garden. It was good, innocent fun. I enjoyed being with Tiger, she was good company today; very compliant, not too loud and generally entertaining to be with.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_023.jpg]
   Chapter Twenty-Two
   As I entered Jonathan’s house one evening a few days later, I was struck by a delicious smell. I found Jonathan in the kitchen, doing something I had never seen him do before; cooking. There was a bottle of wine open on the side and he had a bottle of his beer next to him.
   ‘Hi Alfie. Have you forgiven me yet?’ he asked. I purred. I hadn’t seen much of him over the past couple of days but I had forgiven him, on the proviso that I would get a good dinner out of it. As much as I liked the others, he gave me the best food. He went to the fridge and took out an openpacket of salmon. He dished some out for me and smiled warmly. I narrowed my eyes at him; there was something different about him but I couldn’t put my paw on it. Instead, I ate and then took a place on the windowsill in the kitchen, where I could watch him and look outside as well.
   I enjoyed watching him cook. He had changed his clothes, and looked nice in a white shirt and pair of jeans. He also smelt good. He whistled as he cooked, and he had this new energy about him; what a cat would liken to having a spring in their step.
   The doorbell rang and Jonathan seemed to bounce towards the front door. I waited. After a while he returned with a woman in tow and I understood his mood. She was tall and slim, with long auburn hair. She was wearing jeans and a white shirt, dressed a bit like him, actually. She didn’t look like the type of women I’d seen here before, that was for sure. She was attractive but not like his other women. I guess she was more groomed and not falling out of her clothes. ‘Philippa, can I get you a glass of wine?’
   ‘That would be lovely, thank you.’ Her voice was very posh.
   ‘Red or white?’
   ‘Um, red please.’ He gestured to her to take a seat at the kitchen table and delivered a glass of wine to her.
   ‘Thank you.’
   I was still on the windowsill, but she hadn’t looked at me. I miaowed to let her know I was here.
   ‘Is that a cat?’ she asked.
   ‘What?’ I thought. ‘Of course I’m a cat. What a stupid question.’
   ‘Yes, that’s Alfie,’ Jonathan replied.
   ‘You don’t strike me as a cat man,’ she said dryly, and again I felt insulted.
   ‘He kind of came with the house. And although I didn’t think I wanted any kind of pet, let alone a cat, I’m really fond of him.’ I preened myself. Take that, you mean woman; Jonathan really did like me.
   ‘I don’t like cats,’ she said. I couldn’t believe my ears; I wanted to scratch her but I knew that was the wrong thing to do. ‘Don’t see the point of them at all.’ I waited for Jonathan to step in and defend me.
   ‘I suppose if I had a snake or a lizard, that would seem more manly,’ he joked.
   ‘Or even a dog. But a cat?’
   ‘He’s all right, you’ll get used to him, I did. More wine?’
   I was so upset that I jumped off the windowsill and hissed as loudly as I could, before stalking out.
   ‘Look, you’ve upset him now,’ Jonathan said, laughing rather than sounding cross, like he should have done.
   ‘He’s a bloody cat, for God’s sake.’ Those were the last words I heard as I strode out of the house.
   I spent the next few evenings with Claire, who hadn’t been herself since the whole drunken incident. She still went to work every day, but she looked sad when she came home in the evenings and although I didn’t know why, I paid her extra attention for a few days. I didn’t know exactly what she needed but I made sure she knew that I was there for her. That I would do anything to make sure she was OK.
   Just as we were having supper together, her phone rang. She looked at the screen, blinked and then answered it.
   ‘Hello.’ She looked a bit shocked. ‘Oh Joe, hi.’ There was a pause. I couldn’t hear what he was saying. ‘I am so sorry about the other night, I was so drunk and I don’t normally drink like that.’ No, she didn’t, in all fairness. She might have liked her wine but I hadn’t seen her that bad before.
   They chatted for a bit longer, and as they did, a huge smile began to form on her face. When she hung up, she picked me up and cuddled me as if I was a rag doll.
   ‘Oh Alfie, I didn’t mess up. He’s coming here for dinner tomorrow night. Goodness, I really thought I’d made a fool of myself. Oh God, what am I going to wear? What am I going to cook? I haven’t had a date for years. Years! Oh, crikey. I have to call Tash.’ She jumped up and danced around the room a bit.
   I was trying to help but it seemed that a phone call from a man she barely knew could do more than I ever could! Humans. They were definitely, absolutely, beyond even my advanced comprehension.
   I stopped to watch Tiger trying and failing to catch birds as I made my way to Jonathan’s. I’d left Claire on the phone to Tasha; she was full of excitement. As I continued on to Jonathan’s, I wondered what I would find there. As I walked through the cat flap the kitchen was clean, but empty. I went into the living room and there he was, on the phone.
   ‘That’s OK, I enjoyed cooking for you.’ There was a pause. ‘I’m frantic at work too but how about Wednesday?’ Another pause. ‘Brilliant, I’ll book a restaurant, see you then, Philippa.’ He hung up and seemed to notice me.
   ‘Alfie, my mate,’ he said, affectionately scooping me up onto his lap. ‘I am feeling very happy right now. I think I told you that I knew Philippa years ago, before I went to Singapore. We were both with other people, actually she was living with one of my old work colleagues. So imagine how I felt when I bumped into her and we’re both single! Honestly, having a cat might not be very manly, but I’m pretty sure you’re my good luck charm.’ He laughed and then went to get ready for his ‘gym’.
   I felt like a bit of a yo-yo as I headed back to Claire’s. She was sitting at the kitchen table writing something.
   ‘Hello, babes,’ she said, and I almost looked around until I realised she was talking to me. I sat on the chair next to her and wished I could read as she scribbled away. The doorbell rang and she went to the door, returning with Tasha.
   ‘Thank you so much for coming round, honestly, you are such a good friend.’
   ‘Not really, I should have insisted you came home with me, rather than leaving you that night.’ Tasha gave me a cuddle.
   ‘I was so drunk.’
   ‘I was, too, which is why I left you with the others. Anyway, it’s all OK. Joe obviously likes you, you like him, and you have a date tomorrow.’
   ‘I feel like a giggly teenager. But I’m also terrified. Oh, God. Anyway, now that you’re here, this is what I was going to cook.’ They both looked at her list. ‘I have no idea if he likes Italian food but homemade lasagne and a green salad … I know it’s not very exciting, but it should work, don’t you think?’
   ‘I think it’s great, and he won’t care about the food when he sees what you’re wearing.’
   ‘But I don’t know what I’m wearing!’ Claire protested.
   ‘Come upstairs, you soon will.’ They both giggled.
   I followed them into Claire’s bedroom where Claire and I plonked ourselves down on the bed and Tasha opened the wardrobe and began trawling through her clothes.
   ‘What do you feel like wearing?’ she asked.
   ‘Well I thought a dress, because I look better in dresses but then, I’m at home and I don’t want to look as if I’m trying too hard.’
   ‘Jeans. I think jeans and a sexy top would be best.’ She started pulling tops out.
   ‘I think if you get the jeans and the top right, you’ll give off the right message. Besides, your figure is to die for now. He’ll be putty in your hands.’
   ‘I hope so. I really did like him.’
   ‘I can’t really remember him, although he did have red hair, didn’t he?’
   ‘Yes, he has lovely hair and was funny too.’
   ‘Well, you deserve some fun.’
   ‘I do, don’t I?’ Claire giggled.
   ‘Right, try this on and we’ll see how you look.’
   I stayed on the bed, watching the fashion parade, as the women laughed. It was nice to hear, after seeing Claire in despair again the past few days, but it worried me. If a man could do that to her, one she hardly knew, was she ready to date again? I might not be an expert, but I had seen how Claire was when she first moved here and now she’d had a mini-relapse. I would go so far as to suggest she was still very unstable. I needed to keep an eye on her.
   They finally settled on an outfit and made their way downstairs.
   ‘Do you fancy a cup of tea?’ Claire offered.
   ‘No, thanks, I better get back. Dave has decided that we need to eat dinner together tonight.’
   ‘Oh God, sorry for dragging you over here.’
   ‘Don’t be silly. I enjoyed it. Anyway, I’ll see you at work, but just in case I don’t get to speak to you on your own, remember; a date is meant to be fun. He might not be “the one”, but you just need to enjoy yourself. And remember it is just a date.’
   ‘I know, I need to not take it so seriously. It’s early days, but I’m trying.’
   After Tasha left, Claire snuggled up on the sofa and I joined her.
   ‘I’m sorry I’ve been such a mess lately. I love you, Alfie.’ And I rewarded her with my best cat smile. ‘Things are looking up, you know.’ I purred in agreement. I really hoped that was true, but somehow I just wasn’t convinced.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_024.jpg]
   Chapter Twenty-Three
   I was running late. I had to bolt from number 22B, where Franceska and Aleksy had been dressing me up and taking photos, creating hours of fun for them and Thomasz, who couldn’t stop giggling, and hours of humiliation for me. They’d put hats and sunglasses on me, scarves and anything else that they could find. Then they’d taken photos with Franceska’s phone and laughed all over again. I was surely above all this? But they didn’t seem to think so and short of running away in a huff, I had to put up with it. Luckily, I loved the family enough to know that one day I would forgive them (probably tomorrow), but only on the proviso that I got sardines again.
   The dress-up game took most of the afternoon. I didn’t see Polly or Henry at all but I couldn’t think about that because I wanted to be home to see Claire, and make sure she was happy before her dinner with Joe.
   I rushed through the cat flap and came face to leg with her. She looked great and the food smelt amazing as I rubbed her leg in greeting.
   ‘Oh there you are, I was beginning to worry. Do you want your supper? Quickly, Joe is due any minute.’ She seemed flustered as she dished some food into my bowls; she now had a special mat on the floor for them. I ate my supper quietly, and then I gave myself a very thorough clean. I wanted to look my best for Joe too.
   Although Claire was busy cooking, washing up my dishes and playing with her hair, she wasn’t stressed, she seemed more excited than anything. I felt excited too. When the doorbell went, we both jumped. She fluffed her hair again and I ran my paw over my fur, and then I followed her to answer the door.
   He was standing behind a huge bouquet of flowers, but I still recognised him from the other night; you couldn’t forget that red hair.
   ‘Joe, come in.’ He walked in the door, kissed Claire on each cheek and handed her the flowers. He also produced a bottle of wine.
   ‘Thank you so much, they’re beautiful. Come through to the living room and I’ll pour some wine. Are you OK with white?’
   ‘Lovely. Don’t worry; I remember where the living room is!’ He winked at her. I tried not to feel indignant that he had ignored me, so I followed them both through into the room. He sat on the sofa and I sat on the floor in front of him.
   ‘Did you meet Alfie the other night?’ she asked him.
   ‘Not that I remember. Hi, Alfie,’ he said, reaching out to stroke me. ‘Cute cat,’ he said, smiling. But I knew he didn’t mean it – I could tell. Firstly, he nearly sat on me the other night, so I knew full well he’d seen me. And secondly, you can tell how people feel about you from the way they stroke you. Of course there are other ways of telling, but if someone really likes cats, they stroke you as if they mean it. I guess it’s like the cat equivalent of a handshake. I’ve watched some people take a hand and give it a good solid shake, whilst others barely touch it. Joe, with his half-hearted stroke, definitely didn’t mean it and I felt sad. Not only did Jonathan’s friend overtly dislike me, but Joe secretly did too. I wasn’t doing very well at all.
   As if to prove me right, when Claire went to pour the drinks he looked around the room without giving me another glance. I tried to approach him, but he looked at me with mean eyes.
   ‘Get, cat,’ he said, quietly. Deeply insulted, I slunk away and went to sit under the chair. I might as well observe the evening, as I obviously wasn’t going to be invited to participate in any way.
   Claire appeared to be happy and he seemed charming with her, but I knew immediately he was faking things, and not only because of his behaviour towards me. He made her laugh, although I couldn’t understand why; nothing he said was remotely funny.
   ‘I love working in advertising,’ he said. ‘The creative part and dealing with clients. I particularly enjoy the face to face aspect of it.’
   ‘I guess so, although in my job I prefer it when I don’t have to deal with the clients, I often find it easier to get the job done.’
   ‘I hear you, Claire. But I find it challenging. You know, when you get a really good idea and the client hates it, but you really want it and you finally persuade them. There’s no buzz like it.’
   ‘I guess that you are more suited to it than me. But anyway, since being in London I’m getting used to it.’
   ‘Different from Exeter, though.’
   ‘Very. But you know, I’m really happy I made the move.’
   ‘Let’s drink to that. New start, new friends.’ They clinked their glasses.
   ‘Right, new friend, let’s sit down for dinner. And hope that I don’t poison you.’
   I sat under the table while they ate, quietly eavesdropping and totally uninterested in the food. I decided that Joe might be nice to look at, all bright red hair and blue eyes, but he was boring. He talked about himself an awful lot and what made me really mad was that Claire hung on his every word. She was funny and smart and lovely but at dinner she turned into an airhead. More like the women that Jonathan used to date. She agreed with everything he said. Even when he said he liked hunting, and I knew that Claire hated it. She had told me when I moved in that I should never bring her anything dead, because she didn’t believe anything should die just for the sake of it. Had I been able to answer her, I would have said that it was just a cat’s way of showing love and affection, but instead I respected her wishes. Now this idiot sat opposite her, talking about shooting seasons and plucking pheasants and shedidn’t even tell him what she’d told me. I had half a mind to bring her a dead bird to teach her a lesson.
   Instead I sulked under the table, unnoticed, until they got up and went back to the sofa. They started kissing in an alarming way, as if they were wrestling with each other. I didn’t know whether to go in and save Claire or not, but she didn’t sound as if she needed help.
   ‘You’re gorgeous,’ Joe said, when he took his lips off her for a minute.
   ‘So are you. Come on, let’s go to bed.’ They both practically ran upstairs without a backward glance; it seemed that they had both forgotten all about me.
   Sitting watching the night sky, I was feeling increasingly insecure. I was worried that I was disposable to both Jonathan and Claire, and I really hoped I wasn’t. Even with four families, life still felt precarious. Especially now it seemed that both Claire and Jonathan had found ‘friends’ who didn’t like me. This was a turn of events that I hadn’t anticipated.
   It was one thing to win round owners and other cats, but these two were something else. Even with Agnes, who was incredibly cold towards me at first, I could see goodness in her. The same was true of Jonathan; although his was well buried, I knew it was there. However I didn’t sense any good in either Philippa or Joe, and I was terrified that they would hurt me.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_025.jpg]
   Chapter Twenty-Four
   It was a rare sight. Franceska was crying. It was a day that Thomasz didn’t have to go to work and he had taken both the boys out, telling his wife to have some time to herself and ‘put her feet up’. She didn’t do this, though. She took out her computer and she made some very thick coffee before speaking to someone on the screen, who I guessed was her mother. She looked similar to her, only with very grey hair and more lines on her face. I sat on her lap at one point and they both laughed. I heard Franceska say my name, so I guessed I was being introduced.
   They spoke in Polish for a long time and afterwards Franceska burst into tears. I moved as swiftly as I could to be near her, having long since left her lap, and she scooped me up and held me close. I felt such warmth from this lady, more than any of the other people on the street, although I wasn’t usually prone to favouritism.
   ‘Oh, Alfie,’ she said, sobbing in a way that made my heart want to break. ‘I miss my mamma so much. All my family. Pappa, my sisters, sometimes I think I never see them again.’ I looked at her, trying to convey that I did understand. Which I did. My whole being carried such loss with me everywhere I went; I carried it in my fur, my paws and my heart.
   ‘I love my Thomasz and my boys. I know we here for better lives and Thomasz loves his job. He is brilliant chef and here is opportunity. And I know he ambitions when we marry. I know he want his own restaurant and I really think that he get it one day. I must support him. And I do, but I am so lonely and afraid.’ I knew how she felt.
   ‘I keep so fine when the boys are around but then when I am alone I feel it all. I no want Thomasz to know because he works so hard and is so tired trying to keep everything in order. Is better job here but is expensive so he worries too. We all worry and sometimes I wonder if it’s worth it. Why not stay at home? But also I understand he want more. For him, for us and for the boys.’ And my Franceska, my lovely, gorgeous friend, put her head in her hands and sobbed.
   We stayed like that for what seemed like a long time. At last she gently put me down, stood up and went to the bathroom. She washed her face and put some stuff on it like Claire does. She straightened up and practised smiling in the mirror.
   ‘I must stop this,’ she said, and I wondered if it happened often. I really hoped not. I had never really been alone with her like this before. I had always seen the faraway look in her eyes, but that was only when she snatched moments to herself.
   The doorbell rang just as she had recovered herself. She walked down the carpeted stairs in her bare feet. Polly stood on the other side of the door, smiling and holding a bottle of wine.
   ‘Hello!’ Franceska looked surprised, as did I; Polly rarely smiled, and this was a more relaxed smile than I had ever seen before.
   ‘Guess what? We just met Matt after work and on the way home, we ran into Thomasz, your Thomasz.’ She was breathless with excitement and she looked more beautiful than ever, if that was possible. ‘Anyway, the men started talking and they both got onto the subject of football and Matt wanted to show Thomasz some game on the oversized TV – Matt’s pride and joy. Not only that, but they promised to feed the children. Which means we can have an hour to ourselves with some wine! Voil?.’ Franceska looked confused, then she smiled.
   ‘You better come in before they changes their mind.’ They both laughed.
   ‘I know I never normally let Henry out of my sight but he’s been taking his solids so well and I’ve expressed some milk, so, as Matt pointed out, there was no reason at all why I shouldn’t have some time to myself. Not to mention a glass of wine.’
   Polly followed Franceska into the kitchen, where she poured them both a drink.
   ‘Na zdrowie,’ Franceska said, holding her glass in the air.
   ‘I’m hoping that that means “cheers”,’ Polly replied.
   They both sat in the living room and I joined them. I tried not to be affronted that Polly hadn’t really acknowledged me, but then she rarely did. She seemed to see me as an afterthought, but with her it wasn’t that she didn’t like me, it was more that she didn’t like anything or anyone right now. I knew deep down that she wasn’t mean, like the more recent newcomers in my life.
   ‘So, are you OK?’ Franceska asked.
   ‘I think so. I know it sounds awful but I haven’t been away from Henry since he was born. Not even for an hour. I mean I’ve been asleep while Matt looked after him, but never in a different house. This is the furthest I’ve been.’
   ‘Sometimes we mothers need breaks.’
   ‘Yes, we do. But then I already feel guilty.’ It seemed Polly’s earlier joy was short lived as her eyes clouded.
   ‘Mother’s guilt, it come as soon as you get pregnant.’ Franceska laughed weakly.
   ‘I guess so, that’s what Mum said. I miss my mum.’ Polly’s eyes flecked with sadness.
   ‘Oh so do I. I miss so much.’
   ‘You see, we have a lot in common,’ Polly smiled. Her teeth were so white and perfect. I was sure this woman could have been a model.
   ‘In this case, we must get used to taking the gifts when our husbands give. Mine is too busy to do this much.’
   ‘Mine too. Right, and no more moaning, we will enjoy ourselves. It’s just an hour and I think it’s important that we make the most of it.’
   ‘Good. You know, Polly, you are my first English friend.’
   ‘And you’re my first London friend. And the only Polish friend I have, actually. I’m so glad you live next door.’ The two women were getting sentimental and I felt a bit emotional too. It had been that sort of day all round.
   By the time Polly left, they had only had a couple of drinks, but they were both giggling and happy. Thomasz came home with the boys and Polly went, looking as good as when she’d arrived.
   ‘Bye, Frankie,’ she said, kissing her cheek and using the more affectionate version of her name, which Franceska said she preferred. ‘Matt, he is nice man,’ Thomasz said, when they were alone.
   ‘Nice family. I think we can be friends.’
   ‘Yes, I am thinking they look down on us because we are Polish.’ Thomasz’s face darkened.
   ‘I know, but not everyone is like that. We are lucky our neighbours aren’t.’ Franceska’s eyes clouded over.
   ‘But others …’
   ‘Let’s not talk about it, Thomasz. I really don’t want to.’ Her face was taut with worry.
   ‘Sorry, but I think we should.’
   ‘It is one woman and she will soon stop. Old lady, she no understand modern world.’
   ‘But we don’t take benefits and I won’t have you upset in the street.’
   ‘Please, leave it, Thomasz, you hardly ever have day off. Please don’t ruin.’ She left the room to go to the boys and I wondered what she meant and what I was missing? It sounded like someone had said something bad to her. If I ever found out who, I would go and hiss, spit and scratch them for making my Franceska sad.
   As I sat at the front door to be let out I had more questions than answers, but it was time to check on Claire and Jonathan. It was also time for me to go and see what was being served for dinner.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_026.jpg]
   Chapter Twenty-Five
   It was getting worse. I was becoming a very worried cat. My plan so far had not been without hiccups but I did think it had, on the whole, been working brilliantly. But over the past month, it had all started going wrong.
   Jonathan was staying out more and more, usually forgetting to leave me any food. Then, when I next saw him, he would be all contrite, although he would smile like a lunatic cat, so I didn’t believe him at all. He was suddenly very happy with the dreadful Philippa. And she wasn’t very happy with me. Every time she came to our house, she would make a big fuss about me being allowed on the furniture and about how unhygienic I was; a blatant lie, as I was one of the cleanest cats Iknew. I took great pride in my appearance; but she just didn’t like me. Yesterday evening, I arrived at Jonathan’s at dinner time. The woman, Philippa, was sat on the sofa, my sofa, next to Jonathan. He was reading a big paper, she was reading a magazine, and they were sitting there as if they had been together for a long time. It made me bristle with annoyance. Jonathan looked up.
   ‘Alfie, I was wondering where you were. I left some food out for you in the kitchen.’ I looked at him; I hadn’t walked past any food.
   ‘Oh no, I put it in the fridge, it’s disgusting to leave food out,’ Philippa said. I gave her my meanest look, and even Jonathan raised his eyebrows. He got up and walked to the kitchen. I followed him. He found my food in the fridge and put it down for me.
   ‘Sorry, mate,’ he said, as he went back to the living room.
   They were still sitting in the same place after I’d eaten. I jumped onto Jonathan’s lap to thank him for the food.
   ‘You don’t mind that?’ Philippa asked, looking at him disapprovingly. She had a bit of a snooty face if you asked me.
   ‘No, not at all. He’s a good cat.’
   ‘I don’t think it’s sensible to encourage pets on the furniture.’
   ‘He’s fine, he doesn’t shed much hair.’ It was funny hearing Jonathan defend me. After all, when we’d first met, he’d accused me of all sorts and he didn’t like me on his furniture, or even in his house at all.
   ‘Well, it just doesn’t seem like a good idea. What does he do when you’re at work? Where did he sleep last night?’ I wanted to scratch her again. She was so rude!
   ‘He does what cats do. He hunts, hangs out with other cats. He seems quite happy and he always comes home at some point, so why worry?’
   ‘It just isn’t practical for people like us to have pets,’ she said. ‘And if you’re happy not knowing where he is …’
   ‘Why do I feel we are talking about a teenager rather than a cat?’ He laughed. She smiled, tightly. It made her look as though her face would split.
   ‘Anyway, Jon, can you drive me home? As much as I’d like to stay and talk about the cat, I need to go and prepare for work tomorrow.’
   ‘Of course, hon. I’ll get my keys. But I’ll have to come straight back, I have some figures to go over.’
   When Jonathan left to get his keys, she looked at me really nastily. I hissed at her and she laughed.
   ‘Don’t think you are any match for me,’ she snarled, before turning on the charm when Jonathan returned.
   Saddest of all, when they went to bed, there would be no cashmere blanket for me. I followed them into the room once and Philippa shrieked like I was about to kill her. If only I could! Jonathan picked me up, took me to the landing and closed the bedroom door, shutting me out. He only wanted me when she wasn’t there, it seemed.
   And although Jonathan would swat away her criticism of me, I felt as if he didn’t really fight my cause, which was disappointing. For a while I was his only friend and now he seemed to have forgotten that. What a Judas!
   Claire was no better. My lovely, sweet Claire was so smitten with Joe that she seemed to think he was the master of the universe. When he said anything, she would agree with him, or laugh as if he was funny, when he really wasn’t. The problem with this relationship was that Joe always came to her house. He said his flat wasn’t very big and he had an annoying flatmate, so he had been staying at Claire’s loads since their first dinner. It was as if he had practically moved in.And although he didn’t say anything badabout me to Claire, he was worse than Philippa, because he pretended he liked me and then when she wasn’t there, he would look at me as if I was the worst thing ever. Once, he had literally tried to kick me out of the way. It was only thanks to my speedy reactions that I wasable to dodge him. Of course this seemed to make him even angrier, but he never showed it around Claire. And although Claire always made sure I was fed, she pretty much ignored me when Joe was around; I wasn’t welcome any more. I knew when I wasn’t wanted.
   My Margaret had been so reliable, but these people weren’t. I asked Tiger about it but she said that she didn’t know. Her owners didn’t ever go away without looking out for her and they weren’t mean. But then, they were both cat lovers. I wished that Jonathan and Claire were with cat lovers. I knew that if my future was going to be secure I needed Joe and Philippa out of my life and therefore out of Claire and Jonathan’s. I just wasn’t sure yet how on earth I was going to achieve that.
   The other problem I had was the weather. I had always been a fair weather cat until forced into homelessness. Then I had braved all elements and survived, but of course I hated it. The rain hadn’t stopped all week. Claire said it was because we’d had an early summer, but I didn’t understand how that could cause rain. The rain was pretty much continuous, the showers were heavy and I had only managed to brave the walk to number 22 once, so it had been a few days since I’d seen Franceska, Polly and the others. I sat on either Claire or Jonathan’s windowsills, watching the rain splatter the windows with a heavy heart.
   I was at Claire’s, looking out of the window, when Joe and Claire came downstairs.
   ‘Sorry darling, but I’ll feed Alfie and then I have to run, I have an early meeting.’
   ‘No time for coffee with me?’ he asked.
   ‘It’s because of you I’m running late,’ she giggled. ‘If you want coffee, do you mind letting yourself out?’
   ‘Not at all,’ he said, pinching her bottom and grinning. I couldn’t believe my eyes as she went to the kitchen to feed me, then went to put a coat on, before leaving the house. He watched her go and then he looked at me.
   ‘You don’t want to be out in that rain, do you?’ he said. I miaowed, uncertainly. ‘Well tough.’ He picked me up roughly by the neck and threw me out of the front door. I landed on my feet, but I was upset, sore from where he had grabbed me, and I was getting wet. Shaking myself off in anger, I stalked away.
   I reasoned that since I was already wet I would brave it and try to go and see the others at the number 22 flats. When I got there, my fur was soaked right through. I miaowed and scratched on Franceska’s door but there was no answer. I couldn’t hear anything from Polly’s flat either, so I wondered if they had all gone out together, although the weather was so bad I didn’t know why on earth they would. I felt so dejected. As the rain started to ease off, I wandered down to the pond in thepark. It had been such an awful morning so far, that I decided to cheer myself up by going to find a butterfly or a bird to chase. It didn’t occur to me that they would all be sheltering from the rain. I got to the pond and found it deserted. So instead, I contented myself with trying to chase myreflection. I got as close as I could but the grass was muddy and before I knew it, I started to slide. I desperately tried to use my claws to grip on to the pond bank, but it was useless; it was so slippery that despite scrabbling to get away from the dark water below, I only slid ever closer to thefreezing depths. I yowled loudly, terrified, not knowing what I would do if I fell into the cold water – I couldn’t swim and I had no idea how to get out. Again, I desperately tried to find the bank as I saw yet another of my nine lives flash before me. I used my paws to try to find something, anything, I could cling on to. I cried out as loudly as I could, but I felt hope deserting me as I realised I couldn’t hold on any longer and pitched tail-first into the pond. I heard a loud ‘splash’ as I hit the water. The first thing I noticed was the cold as I was submerged. I screeched again as I tried to pull myself out of the water but my head kept being submerged. I felt as if I was losing any strength I had to stop myself from drowning.
   ‘Alfie, is that you?’ I heard a familiar voice shout; as my head briefly reached the surface I saw it was Matt. I tried to cry out again but no sound came. All I could hear was the whooshing of the water as my head bobbed up and down.
   ‘Alfie, try to swim, I’ll get you.’ Matt was shouting. I used my paws to try to paddle for my life, and I glimpsed Matt, on his knees in the mud, trying to lean forward.
   ‘I’ve got a stick, try to grab it,’ he said as I briefly saw him waving a branch at me. I tried to grab it with my paws but it was too far away and I went under the water again. The next time I came to the surface I saw Matt was practically in the pond with me.
   ‘Alfie, nearly there. Please try to keep still.’ I heard the pleading in his voice and I felt his arm try to grab me but the water pulled me under again.
   I had no energy left and I felt as if I couldn’t fight any more but I tried desperately to reach the surface yet again. My eyes were closed as I felt an arm grab at me. I screeched as I felt the grip tighten and then suddenly all was still. I opened my eyes to find myself lying on the bank of the pond on top of Matt who was soaked from the rain and his clothes covered in mud.
   ‘Oh God, I thought you were a goner,’ he said, as he clutched me to him. I was so exhausted I couldn’t say anything; I just collapsed into his arms. ‘Let’s get you home and dry and then I’ll see if you need a vet.’ I was so weak with relief that I didn’t move.
   When we got into the flat, he took me through to the bathroom and wrapped me in a fluffy towel. He then went and changed into clean clothes. I snuggled into the towel, still too exhausted to move. He carried me gently into the living room and put me on the sofa. He brought me some milk in a bowl and I drank it gratefully.
   ‘What were you doing, falling in a pond?’ he asked. I yelped. ‘Well, I guess you’ll stay away when it’s this wet and muddy. You poor little thing. Are you OK now?’ I purred. I felt my strength returning and Matt was making me feel better. I was cross with myself for taking risks, but atleast I had seven lives still intact.
   ‘Are you wondering where they are? Polly, Franceska and the kids?’ he asked. I miaowed, quietly. ‘They’ve gone away. Franceska took the boys to Poland, for a few weeks. Thomasz booked it as a surprise. Then Polly got a virus, so we decided it was best she go to her mum’s until she’s better. I’m going to spend the weekends there until she’s ready to come back.’ He stroked my drying fur. ‘I’m supposed to be working from home this afternoon so you can hang out with me!’ He was so cheerful and kind, I fleetingly felt better.
   I felt so grateful to Matt, although sad that Franceska and Aleksy weren’t there in my hour of need after my near death experience. I knew I was feeling sorry for myself, mainly because of the horrible Joe, but Matt’s kindness had made me feel better. I did sense some of my loneliness returning; I missed my families.
   Obviously, because I hadn’t visited recently due to the weather, they hadn’t been able to tell me that they were going away. I knew from the last time I had seen Franceska that she needed her mamma, plus Polly needed something too. So I tried to be less selfish and feel glad that although they were gone, they would be back. It was only going to be a few weeks, which wasn’t too long. Not even for an insecure cat like me.
   After drinking my milk, I curled up and slept on Matt and Polly’s sofa and I dreamt of everyone that I loved – from my past, Margaret and Agnes, and from my present, Claire, Jonathan, Franceska, the boys and Polly, Matt and Henry. Just because things weren’t perfect, I had no cause to complain. It wasn’t so long ago that I’d had no one, so I needed to be more grateful for where I was now.
   I woke up hours later and felt better and drier. I shook myself and got off the sofa, leaving the towel, wet from my damp fur. I jumped onto Matt’s lap to get his attention and then I went and stood by the front door.
   ‘Ah, you want to go?’ He smiled. ‘At least that means you are OK now. It’s funny, we all wonder where you go when you leave here, but I guess you have a home that’s expecting you.’ I cocked my head to one side. Matt opened the door. ‘Bye Alfie, visit any time.’
   I waited at Claire’s for her to come home from work. Still a little bit shaken by the events of the morning, I curled up in my bed and tried to get warm. Although I was dry, the coldness you get from being wet through had lingered and I was still a little traumatised.
   I heard Claire’s key in the door and she walked in. She was alone so I went up to her and made a massive fuss. I needed her love. I really did, more than ever. She rewarded me with a loving cuddle before she put me down and went to feed me.
   ‘You seem a bit soppy today,’ she said, as she put my food on the mat. I was practically stuck to her legs. ‘Not that I’m complaining,’ she laughed. ‘I feel as though you’ve been cross with me lately. Tash said it might be because you’re jealous of all the attention I’ve been giving to Joe.’
   I wanted to tell her that Tasha was wrong, I wasn’t jealous, I was bloody annoyed. But of course I could only miaow and I wasn’t sure how much that conveyed.
   ‘Ah, Alfie, you’re still my main man.’ She tickled me affectionately. ‘But I’ll make more of an effort to ensure that you know that.’ She laughed again and I wanted to tell her that it was no joking matter.
   Her phone rang as I was eating.
   ‘Oh, hi, Tasha, thanks for calling me back,’ she said cheerily. There was a pause. ‘No, sorry, I was going to come to book club but Joe called on my way home and he’s had a really bad day at work. I said he could come round so I can’t come tonight.’ There was another pause. ‘No, of course I’m not putting him before friends, but he sounded so dejected. Apparently a client has complained about him. It’s awful.’ Another pause. ‘Oh thanks for being so understanding, let’s have a drink tomorrow night, I promise I won’t cancel on you.’
   I was angry with Tasha then; why was she understanding? Why did Claire have to put this awful man before all of us? I blamed him for my near drowning experience, after all he’d thrown me out that morning.
   By the time Joe arrived, Claire had changed her clothes, put on more make-up and tidied the already spotless house.
   ‘Hello, you,’ she said, giving him a warm hug.
   ‘Have you got any beer?’ he asked, without returning the hug or even saying hello.
   ‘Yes, I got some in for you, I’ll get you one.’ She looked puzzled and hurt. I heard warning bells again. He wasn’t as nice to her as he had been when he first started coming round. Not only did he not like me, but now he was acting as if he didn’t like her either. This wasn’t the sort of man I wanted for my Claire. I felt suddenly fearful that this was about more than my fragile ego. He sat himself down on the sofa and flicked the TV on with the remote control. Claire brought him his drink and sat next to him.
   ‘So, do you want to talk about it?’ she asked, tentatively.
   ‘Actually I want to watch the football. It’s about to start. Have you made dinner?’
   ‘No, I was going to book club before you called, so I don’t have anything in.’
   ‘OK, well why don’t you order us a Chinese?’
   ‘Oh, OK. What do you want?’ She sounded hurt by his coldness and I felt hurt for her. He hadn’t said please or thank you or anything.
   ‘Spare ribs, sweet and sour pork and egg fried rice.’ He went back to watching the TV screen and Claire left the room. I followed her as she went into the kitchen and opened a drawer to take out a takeaway menu. I rubbed her legs.
   ‘He’s only like this because he’s worried about work,’ she whispered, and I made a hissing sound in response. He was like this because he was horrible. I was being proved right. I had known that he was rotten when I first met him. I had a cat’s instinct about him and that was never wrong.
   Everything was a pretence with him; pretending to like me and pretending to be nice to Claire. Now he was shedding his niceness. It seemed Claire was not good at choosing men, although she had struck lucky with me of course. But then Claire didn’t know my main rule in life; never trust a person who doesn’t like cats.
   I wanted to see Jonathan but I didn’t want to leave Claire in such a vulnerable position. I had a feeling she would need me more than ever. I could see she was shaken and confused as she waited for the takeaway, sitting next to Joe in silence. When it arrived, he didn’t move or offer to pay, leaving her to pay for it and dish itout onto plates.
   ‘Are you going to come and eat?’ she asked, as she put everything on the table.
   ‘I’m watching the match, can’t I eat it here?’ he snapped.
   She looked at him with very sad eyes.
   ‘I really don’t like eating on the sofa,’ she said, again, sounding timid. ‘You can see the TV from here.’
   ‘Oh, for God’s sake,’ he shouted, aggressively. Claire jumped. I stretched myself up as tall as I could and hissed at him.
   ‘Don’t you hiss at me,’ he said, standing up. Claire looked lost but I wasn’t scared. I spat at him and hissed again.
   ‘You flea-ridden, mangy ball of fur,’ he shouted, looking as if he fancied killing me. I recoiled into a ball, and yowled in fear.
   ‘Joe, what the hell do you think you’re doing, shouting at Alfie like that?’ Claire said. Her voice was quiet, but strong. Joe looked at her. I could see he was working out his next move.
   ‘Sorry,’ he said, as if he didn’t really mean it. ‘Sorry, I shouldn’t have. Sorry, Alfie. I’d never hurt him you know. It’s just work, it’s hell. Oh Claire, I’m sorry. Let’s go and eat dinner. I’ll make it up to you, I promise.’
   She looked unsure but she followed him and they sat down together. He reached over and took her hand.
   ‘I’m so sorry, really I am, darling,’ he said. I could practically see his insincerity.
   ‘It’s OK. But will you talk to me? What happened at work?’
   ‘This client of mine made a big mistake on his account. He got the budget for his campaign totally wrong, so when we went to bill them, he went mad, and then to cover his tracks he’s trying to blame me.’
   ‘That’s awful,’ Claire said.
   ‘The problem is that it’s a good client and they’re threatening to take their business away. So I have to be the fall guy in the eyes of the agency. They’ve suspended me, pending an investigation, blah, blah, blah.’
   ‘But the truth will come out?’ Claire looked so worried.
   ‘Of course, it’ll be fine, it’s just politics, but in the meantime I’ve been told not to come back for the next week. I mean, how humiliating!’
   ‘I do understand, hon, and you know I’ll support you.’
   ‘I really am sorry and I do appreciate you, you know.’ Joe smiled. His charming fa?ade was back on his face and Claire lapped it up as if he was a saucer of cream.
   I wanted to scream at her, trying to make her understand that he was full of rubbish. I could imagine the support he would want; lots more free Chinese takeaways, lots of watching football whilst being handed beers; I had heard about this kind of man before.
   My cat instincts told me that Joe was the cause of the problem at work. It was definitely his fault and more than ever, I realised that he wasn’t good enough, no way near good enough, for my Claire.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_027.jpg]
   Chapter Twenty-Six
   I was at Jonathan’s, waiting for him to come home from work and fervently hoping he would arrive soon.
   Another week had passed and things were deteriorating further. When I had set my cat heart on Edgar Road, I had felt as if all my troubles were over. The excitement of finding homes and people had long since passed. There was too much worry, too much uncertainty, but by now I was too emotionally invested into their lives to just leave. Not that I had anywhere to go, of course.
   I missed the families at number 22. There wasn’t much point visiting, as they were still away, although I couldn’t help myself walking down there sometimes and pining for my friends.
   Going to Jonathan’s wasn’t too bad. Despite the fact that the horrible Philippa was there quite a lot, it didn’t matter too much. At least I knew where I was with her, and although she wasn’t nice to me, she was nice to Jonathan. Well, she was sometimes but she seemed to always tell him what to do, not thathe seemed to mind. The more I tried to understand these humans, the less I understood them.
   That night, Jonathan came home and made a huge fuss of me, which took me by surprise.
   ‘Philippa’s gone away on business, so it’s just you and me for the next few days.’ I licked my lips in delight. I shouldn’t have been so happy; after all, Jonathan only wanted me because his stupid girlfriend had gone away, but I was grateful for any affection and love he showed me. I decided to make the most of our time together; if Jonathan remembered how charming I was, he might never let Philippa criticise me or call me names again.
   Despite the fact that I had to check on Claire regularly (and the increasingly lazy Joe), Jonathan and I had a lovely boys’ time together. We definitely re-bonded with touch and smell, and I gave him a couple of little gifts to show that he was back in my good books.
   The strange thing was that, although he spoke to Philippa at night, I got the feeling that he was happier without her. It was weird, but when she was there, he seemed to have to be on his guard all the time. He was polite and tidy and cleaned up. But without her, he wore his gym clothes, he left plates on the side overnight, and he was so much more relaxed. I’m not sure the mess was a good thing, by the way, never having been a slovenly cat myself. But nevertheless, I wondered why humans were so stupid. Claire had been happier without Joe, I was pretty sure, and Jonathan was happier without Philippa. When Claire had come back from seeing her mum, shehad thrown herself into her friendship with Tasha and the book club and seemed quite happy. Now, with Joe, there was something missing again. Her sparkle had gone. And Jonathan seemed tense when Philippa was around, and he actually seemed pleased she had gone away.
   I really didn’t understand them at all. Not one bit.
   Over the next few days, Jonathan and I developed a little routine. I still made sure that I spent enough time with Claire, but I spent even more with Jonathan. We ate together, and yes, I had so much fresh fish, I was in heaven. I didn’t even miss my sardines. We watched TV together. He would slump on the sofa with his beer and I would sit nestled into his side while he would absently stroke me. We went up to bed together again and the cashmere blanket returned. He talked to me, as well: about work, which he was enjoying; his new friends, who he was planning on drinking with at the weekend; and his gym, which he went to often, as he didn’t want to ‘let himself go’, The only thing he didn’t talk to me about was Philippa, which said it all really.
   But still, every evening when they spoke on the phone he would end the call by telling her that he missed her. He even said he loved her. I couldn’t believe it; I just didn’t believe he really did.
   It was at this point that I developed another plan. Everything that had happened had changed me and given me new ideas. It seemed clear to me what I needed to do. Jonathan couldn’t really be happy with Philippa, and Joe wasn’t good enough for my Claire, so I had the brilliant idea of getting Claire and Jonathan together. After all, I had been the one who started the friendship between Franceska and Polly! Claire and Jonathan both loved me and I knew they would be perfect together. I just needed to try to figure out a way to make it happen.
   One day, I tried hard to get Jonathan to follow me out of the house by miaowing very loudly as if something was wrong, when I knew Claire would be nearby, but his mobile phone rang and by the time he came off the call, it was too late to engineer the meeting. Another time, I tried to get Claire to follow me to Jonathan’s by yelping and then running off. But she thought I was playing and told me not to be such a ‘silly cat’. So far, I had no more ideas on how to get them together, but I was a determined cat and I knew I wouldn’t give up.
   I couldn’t give up. I was seriously worried about Claire. Joe hadn’t left Claire’s house since the night of the Chinese. Well he had, but only to get a bag of his stuff and come back. He sat around all day watching TV and eating her food, and then, when she came home in the evening, he would be mean to her and then apologise, blaming the stress of his job situation. He had tried to kick me a number of times and although I managed to dodge him, he was becoming more menacing each time. I couldn’t leave, because I was worried about Claire, but I was getting increasingly anxious when I was actually there.
   There was no sign of Tasha, and I missed her. There was just Joe, sitting on Claire’s sofa, with no intention of moving, and Claire, running around him like a timid mouse.
   The way he was treating her, I knew I had to get Joe out of our lives. But it was as if he had cast a spell on her. She didn’t seem happy any more, but I don’t think she realised it, as she spent more and more time trying to please Joe. It was another human contradiction I couldn’t understand. I wished I could talk to Tasha, because I was sure that between us we would sort something out. I was certain that she would have noticed what had happened to her friend, but of course I couldn’t do that. So instead I became a bit of an invisible, stealth cat. I became adept at keeping out of his way, hiding behind furniture, but with my ears pricked up so I could hear everything. I knew that he spoke on the phone a lot when she was out. I knew he wasn’t really ever going to get his job back because I had been right all along – it was his fault. I was pretty sure that he had no intention of leaving Claire’s house, because he was giving up his flat. This was turning into a terrible mess.
   When Claire was home, I would make myself seen. She was still fussing me and feeding me but I could see the way Joe was beginning to affect her. She looked tired and worried all day, and she was definitely getting thin again.
   That evening, she got home from work and the first thing Joe asked was what they were having for dinner.
   ‘I’ve got steak,’ she answered, sounding weary.
   ‘OK, good. Let me know when it’s ready.’ When Claire was home, he watched TV all the time, drank beer and let Claire do everything. He didn’t tidy the house or clean, he didn’t shop or even cook. And she never said anything to him, although I knew this must upset her, being such a tidy person herself. Even I knew not to leave my cat toys lying around.
   I was pretty sure that he would never leave, and the worst thing was that I didn’t think Claire would ask him to leave, either. I realised I couldn’t abandon Claire to this horrible man that I didn’t trust – it made my job on this street even more important. It was in the darkest times that I would be needed the most.
   I wondered, almost on a daily basis, how I had got to this. I’d gone from a loving, largely simple home with Margaret and Agnes, to having to fight for survival, living in two main homes and two part-time ones. Now I was in a complete tailspin about everyone. I was only a cat, for goodness sake. I wasn’t built to deal with so much turmoil.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_028.jpg]
   Chapter Twenty-Seven
   Thank goodness; finally, it was a day of homecomings. On my walk to number 22, I saw Polly through the window of her flat. She was holding Henry and he seemed to be asleep. I also saw that Franceska and the boys were with her. I jumped onto the windowsill, and I heard Aleksy shout,‘Alfie,’ in glee. Franceska said something to Polly and then she came to the door and let me in.
   Ah, what a welcome. Aleksy was all over me, as was Thomasz, who seemed bigger than when he had left. Franceska smiled so much and even Polly seemed a tiny bit pleased to see me. She also looked much happier and healthier; her eyes didn’t have their usual dark rings.
   ‘I miss you, I miss you,’ Aleksy kept saying, over and over. It was so lovely and if I had been able to cry, it would have brought a happy tear to my eye. Instead, I had a massive cat grin stuck to my face for the rest of the afternoon.
   ‘How do you feel about being back here?’ Polly asked Franceska, as she put Henry into his cot and went to make a drink for them both.
   ‘I am OK. It was so nice to go home, see my family, so good. But I miss Thomasz, the boys miss him and I see that our home is here now. I sad to leave but happy to come back. Does it make sense?’
   ‘Yes. And I’m so pleased to see you, but I didn’t want to come back. I mean, of course I missed Matt, but having my mum help with Henry was just so nice. Even when I started to feel better I preferred being there to here, which sounds so terrible. I know I need to be more like you about living in London, but I really dreaded coming back.’ She looked sad again.
   ‘Oh Polly, I sorry. But you must speak with Matt about it.’
   ‘There’s no point. His career is so important. I mean, I was a model, and there’s no way I can go back to that now that I’ve had Henry, not that I want to. So we have to do what’s best for our future and it’s here; Matt’s job is here. Not only does he earn so much more than he did in Manchester, but also there are far more opportunities. I just wish I was better at this mum stuff.’
   ‘Oh Polly, you fine. It’s hard, that’s all. I never found it easy and only now the boys are bigger it gets better. But maybe your mum comes here?’
   ‘Have you seen the size of this flat? Of course you have, it’s the same size as yours!’ She laughed, which was a good sign.
   ‘No room, I know. Anyways, we make the best of things, yes?’
   ‘Yes, Frankie, we will. And you are so good at that, you know.’
   ‘I struggle. Polly, I didn’t tell you, before we went away, why we went … Thomasz made me go. Someone on the street was very bad to me. They hear me talk to Aleksy, in Polish, I forgot, and they say, “Foreigners only come here for our money and free living, you should go home.”’
   ‘That’s awful.’ Now I knew what she had been talking about before she went away and what she was crying about. My poor Franceska.
   ‘Yes but it not young boy or what you call it?’
   ‘Yob?’
   ‘No, it old lady. With the grey hair. She say it every time I see her. And we no have nothing free.’
   ‘I know you don’t. Honestly, don’t listen to people like that. There might always be prejudice, but it’s just narrow-mindedness.’
   ‘It hurts that people might say it to my children.’
   ‘Look, when Aleksy starts school at the end of the summer he’ll be fine. He’ll make loads of friends and you’ll see that it’s not as bad as you think.’ It was funny hearing Polly being reassuring and positive – it was usually the other way around.
   ‘Thank you. Meeting you makes me feel hopeful, that people will be like you. Not like that old lady.’
   ‘You’re normally the one reassuring me!’ Polly said, again reading my mind, and went over to Franceska and gave her a hug. My cat heart felt warm. I felt as if I was instrumental in this beautiful friendship that had sprung up between them, and it was one good thing that I had managed to do. I was fearful that I was losing my Claire and that Jonathan wouldn’t be so close to me when Philippa came back, so I would hold on to this tightly. It would make me smile when I was feeling sad.
   When Franceska went back to her flat to make tea for the boys, I left Polly’s and wandered back to Claire’s house. But she wasn’t there. I felt excited that she might have gone out after work for once, and when I saw Joe lying on the sofa, I made a swift exit. I went to Jonathan’s and let myself in the cat flap. Then I started as I saw Philippa, sat at the kitchentable in front of a computer. She was wearing a dress, which she never normally did. She looked as if she had made a big effort and I fleetingly wondered how she had got in, as Jonathan clearly wasn’t here. I miaowed, loudly.
   ‘Oh, you bloody cat,’ she exclaimed, jumping slightly. ‘I was hoping that my homecoming would be cat free. Shoo.’
   What did she mean,‘homecoming’? This wasn’t her home. I began to panic. What if, like Joe, she had moved in? I ran into the living room and sulked under a chair waiting for Jonathan.
   ‘Hello?’ he shouted, as he opened the front door.
   ‘In the kitchen,’ Philippa replied. He went through and I followed him. She jumped up and threw her arms around his neck, kissing him. She looked as if she was sucking the very life out of him. I rubbed against his leg, trying to remind him that this week I’d been his best friend.
   ‘My two favourite people. Well, person and cat,’ he joshed, as he bent down to stroke me.
   ‘Can you leave the cat alone and concentrate on me? In fact, let’s go upstairs – we have time to make up.’
   ‘Let me just feed him first,’ Jonathan said, which pleased me, but Philippa’s face looked like thunder. He put some prawns in a bowl for me and then they went upstairs. I knew when I was beaten, but at least I got prawns out of it.
   Much later, they emerged. She was wearing one of Jonathan’s Tshirts and he was wearing a robe.
   ‘What do you fancy eating?’ he asked.
   ‘Apart from you?’ she said, giggling. She was acting very strangely. Maybe, like Claire, she had drunk too much wine, although I hadn’t seen any pass her lips.
   ‘Why don’t you order a curry? I know it’s your favourite,’ she said. ‘And we can open the champagne I brought.’
   ‘Sounds good to me.’ They spent time discussing what they would eat and then Jonathan ordered the food, opened the champagne and poured it into thin, posh looking glasses.
   ‘Let’s raise a toast,’ Philippa said.
   ‘To what?’ Jonathan asked.
   ‘To us and the fact that I think we should move in together.’ I was glad I didn’t have a drink, otherwise I would have choked on it.
   ‘Really? Move in together?’ Jonathan said. I was gratified to see that he looked a little bit shocked too. ‘But we haven’t been together that long!’
   ‘I know, but we’ve known each other for years and anyway, why not? I mean we clearly get on well and, you know, at our age I don’t see the point of waiting.’
   ‘It’s just a bit sudden, and, well, totally out of the blue. Isn’t this something we should discuss together?’ I wasn’t sure if Jonathan looked confused or terrified. I was definitely terrified, however. I felt my luck was really on a downward spiral.
   ‘Oh, don’t be a typical man. Look, I was away, I missed you. Since we started seeing each other we’ve been together all the time. This is a logical step.’
   ‘But …’
   ‘I know, we’ve only been dating for a couple of months, but when you know, you know! Johnny, you’re forty-three and I’m about to turn forty. We are both successful, attractive, intelligent people. What’s the point in waiting?’ I kind of had to give her credit for her confidence; she certainly seemed to know what she wanted.
   ‘Well, I’m not sure.’ I noticed that Jonathan hadn’t touched his bubbly drink. I think he looked as if he was turning a bit green, actually.
   ‘About me?’ Philippa snapped.
   ‘Of course not. I’m sure about you, just not about this. I mean, where would we live?’ He looked relieved as he asked the question.
   ‘Well, not here, of course. I mean the house is nice enough, but the postcode isn’t great. My apartment in Kensington would suit us both perfectly.’
   ‘I know yours is a nice place and a great location, but I really like it here.’ He looked a bit hurt at the criticism of our house. I wondered how Jonathan, who had seemed so arrogant and confident when I first met him, would even entertain the idea of being with such a woman. I know she wasn’t bad to look at but really, her personality wasn’t at all good enough.
   ‘It’s fine, but you know it’s just a bit further out of town than is convenient. Also, you could rent this place out to a family, it’d make a good rental.’
   ‘I’ve only just moved in though, really.’
   ‘Jonathan, what is wrong with you? I am offering you myself, full time, in my gorgeous Kensington apartment. Imagine, we can entertain in style, which will be good for our careers. I mean this isn’t great to invite people to – it’s not really in the best area, is it?’
   ‘All right, Philippa,’ Jonathan snapped. ‘I get it. I’m just not sure that I want to move in to your place.’
   ‘Don’t be silly, of course you do.’ I marvelled that her confidence hadn’t slipped one bit.
   ‘I really like you, and we’ve been having a great time together, but can’t we just leave things as they are? Just for the time being.’ He seemed to be begging a bit. I was beginning to feel happy inside. So far, Jonathan had seemed to really like this woman, and although he wasn’t like Claire was with Joe, which was timid and scared, I honestly thought she did exert a lot of control over him.
   ‘No, Jonathan, we can’t. I want to settle down. I’m thirty-nine. I want to be a partner in the firm this year and they favour married people, or at least settled ones. I want to get married. I want a child before I turn forty-one. There is no waiting to be done.’
   ‘Woah Phil, slow down. Where is this coming from?’ I retreated a bit, and it seemed Jonathan was physically recoiling from her too. ‘As you said, we’ve only been seeing each other for a couple of months. Before you went away on business we were having a lovely time. Going to dinner, spending time here, everything was great but not that serious. You can’t come back from a business trip to New York and demand I move in with you, marry you and impregnate you.’ He laughed, uncertainly.
   ‘I can and I have. Look Jonathan, this makes sense. Look at you. You had this high-flying career in Singapore and you’ve had to take a considerable step back in your work here.’
   ‘Thanks for reminding me.’ He looked unhappy, so I went up to him and rubbed his legs under the table.
   ‘My point is that I have a great job and prospects. You can support me and work your way back up at the same time. We will be a great team. I’ll make you look good and vice versa.’
   ‘You make it sound like a business relationship,’ he said, sounding sad.
   ‘Of course not, but, well, I’m not the queen of romance, you know that. Anyway, that’s what I want and what I want, I get.’ She did look determined; her eyes steely.
   They sat in silence for a few minutes. I suddenly wondered what the logistics of such a move would mean for me. I didn’t know where Kensington was, or how far from here. I had a horrible feeling that I wouldn’t be able to go and visit him, as it would be too far. I’d have to stay here with the people who rented this house. I loved Jonathan but I also loved Claire, and Franceska’s family, and I was growing fond of Polly and Matt. I felt terror creep up my fur. I didn’t want him to go, because what if I never saw him again? It hit me that I loved him.
   ‘What about Alfie?’ Jonathan asked suddenly. I wanted to pounce with joy. Philippa looked at him through narrowed eyes.
   ‘Cats aren’t allowed in my apartment building,’ she said, heartlessly.
   ‘I can’t leave him,’ Jonathan replied quietly.
   ‘Oh, for God’s sake. Cats get rehomed all the time. You can find him a family to go to, we’ll do an advert. He’s not even your cat in the first place!’
   ‘Philippa, are you completely uncaring? Alfieis my cat. I love him.’ I felt my fur warm up; he loved me, too. I hissed loudly at Philippa.
   ‘You bloody horrible cat,’ she screeched. ‘Did you hear how he hissed at me?’ She looked thunderous.
   ‘Well, you called him names,’ Jonathan replied, seriously.
   ‘Oh, for God’s sake, Jonathan. He came with the house, you’ve barely known him five minutes. It’s not great for your image, if I’m honest and let’s face it, he’s just a bloody cat.’
   ‘I’ve known him longer than I’ve been with you,’ Jonathan said quietly. ‘And when I first came back, I was in a pretty bad way; he sort of saved me.’ I felt my heart swell with pride. I saved him! He had noticed, after all.
   ‘He saved you?’
   ‘He was here for me when I felt alone.’ Jonathan looked a little bit surprised at this revelation; I basked in the glory of his acknowledgement.
   ‘Right, well, if you’re going to be so stupid over a dumb animal, you’re not the man I thought you were. I’m going home now, to give you time to come to your senses.’
   She got up, looked murderously at Jonathan, and went upstairs to collect her things. We could hear her stomping around and slamming doors angrily, but Jonathan didn’t move, and neither did I. I curled myself up against his leg.
   She emerged after a while, and stood at the door.
   ‘You’ll regret this. What kind of idiot man chooses a cat over me? No wonder you’re such a huge failure,’ she spat, more viciously than any cat I’d seen.
   ‘Bye, Philippa,’ Jonathan said, harshly, and then we watched the door shake as she left, slamming it behind her.
   ‘I didn’t see that coming,’ Jonathan said, after a while. ‘Goodness me. What a woman. I don’t know how she went from being a fun casual girlfriend to a psychopath.’ I wanted to say that she was never fun to me, but I couldn’t. ‘Anyway, looks like I’ve had a lucky escape and Alfie,it looks as if you’ve saved me yet again.’ I purred, proudly. I was so happy and wanted to tell Jonathan that he was very welcome. I had saved us both from the wicked witch. And the bonus was that, although he might have still been in shock a bit, he didn’t seem sad. I just hoped that he wouldn’t regret it and change his mind. But for now I had to trust him. He had earned my trust after all.
   ‘And the right woman is just around the corner.’
   That reminded me of my plan.‘She’s not round the corner, she’s just down the street,’ I wanted to scream. We’d got rid of Philippa, now we just needed to get rid of Joe, and get Claire and Jonathan together. How, I had no idea, but it would make me the happiest cat alive, if I could pull it off. My heart was beatingwith excitement at the thought that I was a step closer to my ideal goal.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_029.jpg]
   Chapter Twenty-Eight
   I didn’t go back to Claire’s house that night; I didn’t want to leave Jonathan. He’d shown loyalty to me, and I wanted to show mine to him. After Philippa had left, we watched TV together, and then he took me back up to his room and the much-loved cashmere blanket. I had glorious dreams that night, in which I felt loved and warm and wanted. After the last few weeks, where I had felt utter turmoil and insecurity, it was much needed. It was the best cat sleep I’d had in a while.
   It wasn’t a work day the next day, but I woke early and went and nudged Jonathan by sitting on his chest. He groaned, opened his eyes and gently swatted me away in surprise. I retaliated by softly pawing his nose.
   ‘Ow, Alfie, you startled me,’ he groaned. I smiled. I was too happy to be worried about being told off. ‘Oh God, I guess you’re hungry. OK, come on then. Give me a chance to go for a pee and I’ll fetch you some breakfast.’ I miaowed joyfully. ‘Christ, maybe I should have kept Philippaafter all, she’s less trouble than you.’ I looked at him, shocked but he laughed. ‘Only joking. Right, see you downstairs in a minute.’ He dashed into his ensuite shower room and I padded downstairs to wait for my breakfast.
   We didn’t rush but after we had both eaten, Jonathan announced that he was going to the gym and so I thought it was time for me to go and see Claire. I steeled myself for what I might find; who knew what Joe had got up to since I saw them last?
   I let myself in and found Claire cooking a big breakfast.
   ‘I was wondering where you were,’ she said. ‘I was getting worried, Alfie.’ She looked so sad as I rubbed against her bare legs. I wondered why humans didn’t realise that they should change things if they were unhappy. She should have kicked Joe out, as he clearly didn’t make her full of joy. As she bent down to fuss me, I licked her nose affectionately. She giggled, which was a welcome sound in what had been a laugh-free house, lately.
   Claire was in a bad way. She looked like the Claire who had moved in here; thin and pale, with dark-ringed eyes and a taut mouth.
   ‘Breakfast ready?’ Joe asked, appearing at the kitchen door in a pair of jogging trousers and a scruffy T-shirt.
   ‘Nearly, sit down and I’ll bring it in.’ She dished up one plate of food and took it into the living room, where she put it on the small dining table. He sat down and started eating without a word of thanks.
   ‘You not having any?’ he asked, finally noticing she was still standing there. She sat down with her mug.
   ‘No, just coffee. I’m not hungry.’
   ‘Good girl, don’t want you getting fat, do we?’ he said with a sneer, and he turned back to his food. I was constantly surprised by the way this awful man seemed to become more and more terrible every day, especially when my Claire was so lovely. His plate was piled high, and he had no manners. As egg yolk dripped down his chin, he wiped it away with his hand. Looking at Claire, I could see that she clearly couldn’t cope with his behaviour. My heart was breaking again, but I still didn’t know what to do.
   A few hours later, when Claire had cleaned all the dishes, given me some fried egg (which I really liked), and tidied the house, Joe appeared from upstairs, dressed in jeans and a shirt. He looked smarter; normal almost. But of course I’d seen the real him.
   ‘Are you going out?’ Claire asked, her voice barely a whisper.
   ‘I told you, it’s Garry’s birthday and we’re going bowling and then out.’
   ‘Oh, sorry, I’d forgotten.’
   ‘Yeah, well don’t wait up.’
   ‘Have fun.’ Claire smiled at him but he didn’t smile back.
   ‘Sure. Oh, by the way, you couldn’t lend me?30? Just for a few days? Work still haven’t paid what they owe me, but they said they would definitely put it in this week.’ I knew this was a lie. Joe had been taking money from Claire for ages and not giving her anything back. I wanted to scratch and bite him but I knew that would only make things worse.
   Claire went to get her purse and came back with three notes. She handed them over and Joe took them, without a glance. He pocketed them without thanks and he didn’t even kiss her goodbye as he left the house. Claire watched him go as if she didn’t understand what was happening to her, and I really don’t think she did. I was pretty sure she didn’t know how this man, who had been so charming to her at first, was now living with her, eating her food, taking her money, and not even being nice to her. Her eyes were questioning how she had got herself into this situation; but she also looked as if she had no idea what to do.
   I was despairing, as Claire went upstairs, took a shower and got dressed. I followed her to offer her my support; it wasn’t much, but it was all I had. She looked a little better when she was clean and dressed but she started cleaning rigorously and I could see her sadness.
   I was so relieved when the doorbell rang and she opened the door to find Tasha on the other side. I rushed to Tasha and almost leapt into her arms, I was so pleased to see her. She’d hardly been round at all since Joe had moved in, and it made me very sad. I missed her terribly and I hoped she would know what to do about Claire.
   ‘I didn’t know you were coming,’ Claire said, eyeing her suspiciously.
   ‘Sorry, I was just passing. Can I come in?’ she asked. Claire nodded and stood aside. Something wasn’t right here. They didn’t greet each other warmly like they had done previously. ‘Is Joe here?’
   ‘No, he’s gone out. Coffee?’ Claire asked.
   ‘Yes please.’ They walked through to the kitchen, where Claire busied herself with the kettle and the cups. ‘Claire, are you OK?’ Tasha asked.
   ‘I’m fine, I’m great,’ she replied, defensively.
   ‘I haven’t seen you outside work in over a month, Claire. I thought we were friends.’ I saw Claire’s shoulders hunch.
   ‘We are friends, Tash, but things have been really hectic with Joe. But as I said, I’m fine.’
   ‘You look as if you really need to eat,’ Tasha said.
   ‘I’m watching my weight, that’s all.’
   ‘There’s nothing of you.’
   ‘I like being thin.’ There was a sharp edge to her voice.
   ‘Claire, you were like this when I first met you. Your ex-husband did that to you and then you started to get over him. Do you remember how much we laughed? And you loved work and the book group and everything.’
   ‘Look Tasha, I told you the other day, I’m fine. I’m trying to be happy. The only thing that’s wrong is that Joe is having this awful time with work and I need to be supportive. He needs me.’ She looked determined when she mentioned Joe.
   ‘But you don’t talk to me any more; you never come to the book group and refuse every invitation to come out. Then, when you come to work, you put your head down and avoid me. I have no idea why you’re shutting me out!’ Tasha seemed genuinely upset and worried. I decided to make a grand gesture; I went to her and jumped up into her arms. I wanted to convey to her that she was right and she needed to do something. I wasn’t sure if she understood, but she held me as if she did.
   ‘I’m not avoiding you, Tasha, you’re just being paranoid. How many times can I say that everything is fine?’ I looked at the two women; they both looked as if they were going to refuse to budge. As she gently put me back down on the floor, I crossed my paws that Tasha would make Claire see sense.
   ‘It’s not that we’ve even been allowed to meet Joe properly. Whenever I ask you both out, you make excuses. Is that you or him?’
   ‘It’s both of us. Joe isn’t in a great place because of work, I thought you understood that I needed to support him.’
   ‘OK, I’m going to risk you killing me, but I’m going to say it. You hardly knew Joe before he moved himself in, what was it, a month ago? He treats you like a doormat; we’ve all seen it. He might say that the work thing isn’t his fault but do you really believe him? People don’t get fired for no reason these days. If he’s as innocent as he says, then he would be taking them to a tribunal.’
   ‘He’s talking to HR and lawyers at the moment, you know how long these things take,’ Claire replied, although she didn’t sound convinced. ‘And he hasn’t moved in. He’s staying here because he needs my support.’
   ‘Are you sure? From what I can gather, you’re rushing home from work every day to see him.’
   ‘Actually Tasha, I am sure. He still has his flat, and anyway, I like having him here.’ She didn’t sound very convincing to me. Or to Tasha either.
   ‘Do you? Because you seem miserable to me. And to everyone at work. We’re worried about you. You don’t come for drinks. You never answer my texts. You look pretty bad, to be frank. So if this is your idea of happy, then God help you.’ Tasha’s voice was raised and her face was red. I wanted to shout in agreement but I just stood there, watching. Claire was lying, to Tasha and maybe to herself. There hadn’t been a conversation as far as I knew, but it was clear that Joe had, in effect, moved in.
   ‘Tasha, I appreciate your concern. But this is my life. After my horrible marriage I didn’t think anyone would want me. But Joe does. And not only that, he needs me. This is a tough time for him, and he needs my support. I love Joe and we’re happy. I don’t need you or anyone else coming round and interfering.’
   ‘I’m only doing it because I care about you. You do know that, don’t you? I’m worried.’ Tasha looked very sad and defeated all of a sudden.
   ‘Please don’t worry.’ Claire’s voice was colder than I’d ever heard her. ‘I’ve got a lot to do today, so I’d be grateful if you left.’ Claire turned away from Tasha, who slowly backed out of the kitchen. I saw Claire pour the untouched coffee down the sink before I followed Tasha outside. She leant against the front gate and I stood next to her.
   ‘Oh Alfie, why can’t she see what a user he is?’ I tilted my head. She crouched down as if to have a face-to-face conversation with me. ‘He’s bad, you know that, I can tell, but what can we do? She just won’t listen. If only you could somehow get him to show his true colours.’ I tilted my head the other way, questioningly. ‘You know, I’ve seen this before with other people. Women who change like this with men are usually being abused in some way. You must have seen more than me, Alfie, living with them. I wish you could tell me. Oh God, I’m talking to a cat.’ She laughed, bitterly. ‘No offence, Alfie, but I don’t think you or I can solve this one.’
   I hated that humans underestimated me but at the moment she was right; I could think of no way to fix this. However, since I was feeling quite confident having sorted the situation with Philippa, which I felt I could take some credit for, perhaps something would come to me. I kept playing Tasha’s words in my head, ‘getting him to show his true colours’, and I prayed for some inspiration.
   I returned through the cat flap to find Claire. She was sitting at the table in the living room and she looked very sad. I jumped up onto the table and gave her a quick cat kiss, licking her nose gently. She smiled sadly, and didn’t even try to get me off her table. Things must have been bad.
   ‘Sometimes it feels like you are the only one who doesn’t judge me,’ she said. I purred. I did actually judge her, but she needed my support. ‘Alfie, I love you but I need to go to the supermarket. Don’t worry, I’ll get you a treat for supper.’ She pulled herself up, and leaving me sitting on the table, she got ready to leave.
   I saw Jonathan arrive back from the gym, so I went to check on him. I was hoping for some time at the number 22 flats later but I didn’t want to be too far from Claire; I was so worried about her. Jonathan was on the phone and when he hung up, he smiled at me.
   ‘I’m going out with some friends from work to celebrate my newfound freedom,’ he joked. ‘I’ll give you some salmon before I go, but I suggest you don’t wait up.’ He laughed and I miaowed along with him. He then picked me up and spun me round.
   ‘You know, Alfie, us humans are a funny bunch. I thought I wanted a relationship so much I was willing to put up with being bossed around by Philippa. But actually I’m happier without her. I can see that now!’ He laughed again. If only Claire could see this. He was right, he was nicer now, somuch nicer than ever before, and maybe it had taken a relationship with a rotter like Philippa for him to see the special bond I knew we shared.
   I remember Margaret talking about how people grow. Sometimes they grow straight, and sometimes they take wrong turns, but humans evolve and change often. She also said that sometimes it took very bad things to make people blossom, which made little sense to me until I had my own bad things to deal with. I had been a very young cat but I’d had to grow up fast and learn hard lessons, which I hadn’t always welcomed, but which would stand me in good stead for the future. Jonathan had grown too, but my poor Claire; she was wilting. I hoped it was one of the wrong turnings that Margaret had spoken about and that she would start growing straight again.
   I had to make sure that my families were all right; but it was a big responsibility for a little cat.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_030.jpg]
   Chapter Twenty-Nine
   Joe had returned home late that night, waking both Claire and me. He was being nice to Claire in a very horrible way, pawing at her and kissing her and I left the room before they kicked me out.
   I headed back to Jonathan’s for the night. I was greeted by an empty house, and, once again, Jonathan didn’t come home at all. What a bunch of humans I had chosen!
   I felt like a ping pong ball as I padded back over to Claire’s for breakfast. Surprisingly, she and Joe were all smiles as they had breakfast together. Claire even ate a little bit, although it was only a very small amount. I saw Claire chewing her lip nervously.
   ‘Joe, can I ask you something?’ she said, sounding timid. He nodded. ‘It’s just that you’ve been here over a month now and, well, you seem to have moved in, but we haven’t talked about it.’ I saw his eyes darken.
   ‘Are you saying you don’t want me here?’ he asked.
   ‘No, of course not. But, well, we don’t talk about your job or your flat or what’s happened. Are you living with me properly?’ She looked unsure and scared.
   ‘Claire, I wanted to ask, but I was too worried you would say no. I was so ashamed, but I lost my flat. Work have messed me around with money and the lawyer who is helping me demanded payment up front. I couldn’t afford the rent.’ He put his head in his hands. ‘I was just too afraid to tellyou.’ Claire looked as if she didn’t understand and I could see she had no grip on this situation at all.
   ‘If you need somewhere to live, you can move in. You only had to say. Joe, I would never judge you, I love you.’
   ‘Oh Claire, I would love to move in here properly. I’ll go and get the rest of my stuff this week!’ He looked like the cat that got the cream. ‘It’s going to be great, and as soon as I sort work and everything out, we’ll put it on a more official footing. You know, with bills and stuff.’ I narrowed my eyes in confusion. How on earth had he managed to do this? I knew he was lying. He had given his flat up a couple of weeks ago and asked a friend to keep his stuff for now – I had heard the phone calls. I hoped Claire would tell him to sling his hook, like Jonathan had to Philippa.But although she looked a bit unsure, she smiled.
   ‘Of course I want you to move in. I just wasn’t sure if you already had.’
   ‘Oh no, I’d never do that without asking you. Right, today, let’s celebrate by doing something amazing.’
   ‘There’s an exhibition at The National Gallery I’m dying to see,’ Claire said, tentatively.
   ‘Then we shall go. Today is all about you, my love, so whatever you want to do, I want to do.’ Joe leant over and kissed her. I hadn’t seen him being like this for ages and I wondered what had brought it on. I wondered if he had noticed how bad she looked, or felt, or if he actually did care after all, although I was still highly suspicious.
   ‘You don’t know how happy that makes me,’ she giggled, looking pleased.
   ‘That’s all that matters,’ he replied, tightly, and I knew, deep down, that he wasn’t genuine.
   I took a leisurely stroll over to the number 22 flats. The sun was back again, it was a lovely day, and I felt a little bit of a spring in my step, despite the drama. When I got to the flats, both families were congregated out the front, with lots of bags. Both Franceska and Polly were in summer dresses; the men and boys wore shorts and Tshirts, and they all looked animated and happy.
   ‘Alfie,’ Aleksy shouted, coming over to me. ‘We have picnics.’
   ‘Hi Alfie,’ Thomasz the man said, coming over to stroke me.
   ‘Alfie can come too?’ Aleksy asked, hopefully.
   ‘No, we go on train, cats no go on train.’
   ‘We go to sea,’ Aleksy explained, but he looked sad that I couldn’t come.
   I felt disappointed too. I could have done with a change of scene. As they chatted excitedly, and organised their many bags, I smelt something very exciting. It was tuna. I loved tuna! I followed my nose and found that the biggest bag contained a blanket and some wrapped packages, which I was pretty sure contained tuna of some sort. I put my head in for a closer look and, before I knew it, I had climbed right into the bag. It was comfortable and soft and smelt so good. I breathed in the heady scent of fish, but before I had a chance to climb out again, I saw a hand– Thomasz’s – pick the bag up, and put it in the car. I didn’t know what to do as I felt the car start moving, so I did nothing. My first instinct was to panic, and so I nearly called out, but then I remembered I was with my families. It seemed I could go to the seaside after all.
   I knew I had to keep quiet, but in the end I fell asleep anyway when we got on the train. As they put me on the floor, I curled up and the motion rocked me off to dreamland. I was vaguely aware of the train stopping, then being picked up again. There was a lot of noise as I was put down on the ground. I tentatively poked my head out but all I could see was a lot of legs. I spotted a dog sniffing around so I hid again.
   After being carried, and driven, and carried again, we finally stopped. I could feel warmth overhead, and hear seagulls squawking hungrily and lots of human chatter. I heard the men talk about arranging deck chairs and Franceska said she would lay out the picnic. She opened the bag and I jumped out. I would have shouted‘surprise’ if I could have. Everyone went quiet for a minute, but then Aleksy shrieked with laughter, little Thomasz joined in and even Henry giggled as I went to say ‘hello’ to him in his pushchair. Franceska picked me up.
   ‘Our little stowaway.’ Everyone laughed and I suddenly felt a joy that had been absent from so many of our lives lately. Yet again, I felt as if I had done the right thing for my families.
   ‘Don’t wander off, Alfie,’ Matt said, quite sternly, when the laughter died down. ‘We’re a long way from home, so stay with us.’ I looked at him indignantly. What kind of cat did he think I was?
   The picnic was such fun. I sat on the edge of the blanket, blinking at the bright sun, being fed bits of food, and watching. Other people seemed to point at me a lot. Perhaps cats didn’t really go to the seaside after all. I certainly didn’t want to go to the water with some of the others as they went to paddle in the sea. Still remembering my pond experience, I decided to stay well away from the sea. I sat with Polly as the others went, even Henry.
   Although she had seemed happy, the sadness returned to Polly’s eyes when she was alone. She let me sit next to her and stroked me absently, but I wondered where she was; she wasn’t sitting on the beach with me. I wondered what I could do to help her. Until I knew, I curled up into her side and tried to convey my love.
   We stayed like that for a while until the others returned, dripping wet.
   ‘Alfie!’ Aleksy shook himself near me. I yelped and jumped out of the way.
   ‘Cat’s don’t like water,’ Matt explained, and he winked at me.
   ‘Sorry,’ Aleksy said, and I purred in forgiveness.
   We passed a wonderful afternoon. Both families were happier than I had seen them. There was so much laughter and joy that my heart swelled. I could hear the birds squawking overhead. The sun was quite hot but I managed to find some shade near Henry’s pushchair when it got too fierce. Aleksy and Thomasz collected stones, there was a beachful to choose from. At one point, the men went to get ice cream, and they even got one for me!
   Oh, it was heavenly, as I licked my first ice cream ever. I balked at bit at how cold it was at first, wrinkling my nose and shivering, which made everyone laugh, but then I tried again and it was delicious. Really creamy! Suddenly a big seagull swooped down in front of us and looked menacingly at me. Thomasz, the little one, screamed in fright, but I stood myself up on all fours as big as I could be (although he was still bigger than me) and hissed at him fiercely. He gave me a look as if he was weighing up an attack, but I hissed again and spat and he flew off.
   ‘Alfie very brave,’ Aleksy said, and he petted me as I returned to my ice cream. I might have seemed brave to him, but I was shaking inside. I wasn’t sure that I would have survived if it had descended into a fight!
   ‘It’s OK, Alfie, we would have saved you,’ Thomasz the man said, although I wasn’t sure if even he would have been a match for an angry, hungry seagull; they had a reputation for ruthlessness among our community.
   When the sun started to sink, Franceska said it was time to go home, so the children changed into clean clothes, the rubbish was collected and the bags packed. I was told this time to travel in a bag that sat underneath Henry’s pushchair. It was actually quite a comfortable way to be transported home, so I didn’t mind at all. I slept most of the way dreaming of ice cream.
   Bags were unloaded at the number 22 flats. I bid everyone goodbye and wearily made my way down the street back to Claire’s.
   ‘I wonder where he goes to when he leaves us? Where does he really live?’ Matt said, and they all looked at me as if I should provide the answer.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_031.jpg]
   Chapter Thirty
   The following morning, after my usual rounds, I made my way to number 22 to go and play. I really wanted to relive the pleasure of being at the seaside with them; making the boys laugh, as I had yesterday. It made my heart swell that I could bring happiness into their lives.
   I was about to try to get Franceska or Aleksy’s attention but I was stopped short by a noise. It was a strange noise I hadn’t heard before. A bit like the sound of a cat being strangled, but it was coming from Polly’s flat. Then I heard Henry screaming and more of the other noise. I was pretty sure the sound had to be coming from Polly.
   I instinctively knew what I had to do. I scratched frantically and miaowed as loudly as I could before Franceska appeared at the front door.
   ‘Oh, Alfie, come in,’ she said, stepping aside, but I stood firm. She looked at me strangely. ‘What do you want?’ I walked next door and stood outside Polly’s, miaowing. Franceska tentatively moved towards me when suddenly the loud noise was emitted again – and this time, she heard it.
   ‘What is it?’ she asked, eyes wide in horror. ‘Oh God, it sounds like someone hurt.’ She put her door on the latch, shouted up to Aleksy that she would only be a minute, and then we both stood outside Polly’s door.
   She rang the bell and hammered on the door. After what felt like ages, Polly opened it and handed Henry to Franceska.
   ‘Take him, please take him. I can’t bear it any more.’ Her beautiful porcelain skin was tear-stained, her hair wild, and she looked dreadful.
   ‘Polly,’ Franceska said, gently, as she took Henry into her arms. He immediately stopped crying.
   ‘No, take him. I can’t bear it any more. I can’t do it. I’m a terrible mum and I can’t even love my own baby.’ She collapsed onto the floor, put her head in her hands, and sobbed.
   ‘Polly,’ her voice was soft. ‘I have to go and feed Henry. He is hungry.’ She spoke slowly, the way people speak to animals and small children. Polly didn’t reply. ‘Here, I put your door on the latch, and I call Matt? You give me his number.’
   ‘No, you can’t. I can’t bear it. If Matt sees me like this, he’ll never forgive me. I won’t give you his number.’ She started wailing again. Franceska nipped into Polly’s flat and came back with Henry’s milk and some bottles. She picked up the bag that Polly always kept by the frontdoor and took Henry back to her flat. But she looked terrified, as if she didn’t know what to do.
   She phoned Thomasz while preparing Henry’s milk, but they spoke in Polish so I didn’t know what they were saying. Franceska sounded a little bit hysterical and I had never seen her look so anxious as she fed Henry, and tried to settle her two boys, who seemed to sense that something was wrong. I tried to play with Aleksy to distract him, but it was as if he was too worried to have fun.
   A little while later, Thomasz arrived.
   ‘You must take her to doctor,’ he instructed, after she told him a bit more about Polly. ‘Now, it is emergency. I can stay here with boys. Is OK.’ He put his arms around her and gave her a reassuring hug.
   ‘What about work?’
   ‘We were quiet today, so it’s fine.’
   ‘I am glad your boss is also friend.’
   ‘He is fine. He understand that I work hard and that I wouldn’t leave if I didn’t have to.’
   ‘I hope so.’ Franceska issued instructions on what to do with the boys and Henry, who had fallen asleep and was cushioned on the sofa.
   ‘After the doctor, we call Matt.’
   ‘She begged me not to.’
   ‘But she needs him, she just isn’t right with her head. I think when we call him she will be pleased eventually.’
   ‘You have his number?’
   ‘Yes. Take her to doctor, and then when you come back we call him.’
   I went with Franceska to Polly’s flat, where she opened the door. Polly hadn’t moved from the spot on the floor where she had collapsed earlier.
   ‘Polly?’ Franceska said softly.
   ‘Is Henry all right?’ she asked, without looking up.
   ‘He is very good. He is fed and sleeping. You, I take you to the doctor.’
   ‘I can’t go anywhere.’
   ‘We have to. You have baby who needs you but you are sick, and until we go to doctor then you won’t be fixed.’ Franceska sat down on the floor next to Polly and I sat next to her.
   ‘You think I’m ill?’ She looked at Franceska with her sad, beautiful eyes.
   ‘I think you have baby sadness. It is very common and I think that you have it.’ Polly looked up then at Franceska.
   ‘I can get help?’
   ‘Yes, you see doctor. He help you and then you get better and you enjoy your baby.’
   ‘Have you had this?’
   ‘For a while, with Aleksy. He was younger than Henry and I thought I didn’t love him but it was just the depression. I took the pills and I love him more than I ever thought I could.’
   ‘But Henry cries all the time. Sometimes I think the sound of him crying is going to make my brain bleed. And then I think I might die and sometimes, I even think that is a good thing.’
   ‘OK, but Henry cry, babies cry. If you are happier then he will be happier.’
   ‘I think he’d be better off with a mummy who deserves him.’ More tears sprang forth.
   ‘Polly, you are his mummy and you love him. You might not feel it now, but you do, and he loves you. With me I am the same. My mamma, she see something in me and she make me go to doctor like I am with you.’
   ‘My mum said something at the weekend. She said I wasn’t myself and she was worried. She thought that it was the move and Matt’s new job that had taken its toll on me. But I couldn’t tell her, I couldn’t say that I didn’t love my baby. What kind of monster does that make me?’
   ‘An ill person, not a monster. I know you love him, you do, you just can’t feel it because of the depression. Honestly, I understand. I felt similar when I got help. Lots of women do.’ Franceska put her arm around Polly, who sank into her.
   ‘Thank you so much. Do you know how much better that makes me feel, knowing I am not alone? But Matt—’
   ‘He will understand. He good man. But first we go to the doctor and we get you some help.’
   I watched as Franceska got Polly to her feet and then directed her to get her shoes and bag, and they left. She spoke to Polly as if she was a child and her voice was soothing. I felt better as I followed them out. Franceska locked Polly’s front door behind us but hers was still on the latch, so I could freely go back to her flat.
   I played with Aleksy, who seemed a bit happier, as he got toys out for us.
   ‘Mamma,’ Thomasz the little boy kept saying, and his father would give him a hug and biscuits. He, like Franceska, was quite calm and relaxed. He kept an eye on Henry, he tried to read stories to Thomasz, who was more interested in the television. At one point he fed the boys and he also gave me some fish. I wanted to stay with them and wait to see if Polly was going to be all right.
   We seemed to be waiting a very long time. Even Thomasz became agitated. Henry woke up and Thomasz had to change his nappy. Then little Thomasz went into his cot for a sleep. Aleksy asked his dad many questions, but in Polish, so I couldn’t really understand what was being said.
   More time passed. Thomasz looked worried, but he went to prepare the special milk for Henry. He was coping with the three boys as if he’d always had them. He was largely calm, unruffled and very efficient. I hadn’t really seen fathers looking after their children in this way before; in the cat world we don’t really do ‘hands on fathering’. But Thomasz was even calmer than Franceska, if that was possible. However, I couldsee that underneath it all he was worried. We all were. I rubbed myself against his leg for reassurance, which I felt he needed as much as the others.
   It occurred to me that I had seen them all in bad places; some worse than others. Franceska’s homesickness, Claire’s heartbreak, Jonathan’s loneliness and Polly’s struggles with Henry and her new home.The phone rang, interrupting my thoughts, and Thomasz snatched it up. He spoke for a few moments in Polish. When he hung up, he looked serious, as he dialled another number.
   ‘Matt, it’s Thomasz from next door.’ There was a pause. ‘Henry is fine, he is with me, but Polly is not good. Franceska took her to the doctor.’ Another pause. ‘No, she come home now but she needs rest and someone needs to help with Henry.’ He looked agitated as Matt was clearly speaking. ‘Can you come now? I will explain but it is hard. But all will be OK.’
   Matt arrived fairly quickly. He immediately picked up Henry, but he looked terrible; worried and pale.
   ‘I don’t know how to thank you,’ he said, as Thomasz went to make them tea.
   ‘Is nothing. Is what friends do. But Matt, is serious with Polly. My wife found her today, well, no, Alfie found her, and she was having some breakdown, Franceska said. So we look after Henry and they go to see the doctor. It has been a long time but they come back now.’
   ‘I’m so ashamed, I did this to her. Making her move when Henry was so young. I thought I was doing the right thing.’ He had tears in his eyes.
   ‘I know, because we did it too. My boys are a bit older but then the upheaval for them too is big. Matt, this isn’t a fault. It is an illness and it happens. Franceska had something similar after Aleksy was born and it was very worrying. But she got some help and now she loves being their mammaand is happy.’
   Matt had his head in his hands.
   ‘I should have seen it coming. After that week at home she seemed so much better, and since she met Franceska she’s been happier, so I just put it down to the move. And yesterday … we all had such fun, so how could I miss it? What do I do? My job is crazy and we need it, we need the money.’He looked as if he was going to cry.
   ‘Matt, Polly has mum who is good, yes?’
   ‘Yes, she’s great.’
   ‘She come stay here for a few days, just to help out while Polly starts to get better.’
   ‘That’s a good idea. I’ll call her now.’ He looked a bit happier at the thought. ‘We have a camp bed, a nice one, which we can put in Henry’s room. The flat is a bit small to have someone else in, though.’ He looked concerned.
   ‘It does not matter. At least Polly have someone to take care of her.’ Matt looked at Thomasz as if he had solved the problem. ‘It might take time. She has pills but they have to find time to work,’ Thomasz said cautiously.
   ‘Yes, but at least she’s got help. Oh thank you so much, and most of all, thank you, Alfie, I think you may have saved us.’ As Matt made a huge fuss of me, I preened myself; I was proud and happy. I was doing good wherever I went, it seemed, and this may have been my most important act yet. Ididn’t dwell on the element of luck that had taken me to Polly’s place at the right time, not when I had so much praise being heaped on me.
   I had learnt from my time on Edgar Road that things weren’t always simple. At first I had seemed to help Jonathan and Claire. But then, look at Claire now. I hadn’t made her better. I still needed to help her; she desperately needed it. But until I figured out how on earth I would do that, I had to stay close to Polly and the family. Aleksy was very clingy with me and I knew that although he probably didn’t understand fully what was going on, he could sense that something wasn’t right. So I let him cling to me a little too tightly.
   ‘You’re my best friend, Alfie,’ he said to me and I wanted to cry, the way humans did when they had their hearts touched. If what the men were saying was true, Polly still had a long way to go.
   Franceska eventually arrived home, on her own.
   ‘Polly is sleeping. She has pills to sleep and the doctor told her to take it now, she needs a lot of rest after …’
   ‘After what?’ Matt asked, looking concerned.
   ‘Today she has a breakdown of sorts. She loves you and Henry but her head isn’t feeling good. The doctor has given her pills to help in the short term but she must go and see someone. Counsellor. And she needs to rest and not be alone with Henry. The pressure is too much.’
   ‘I’ve phoned her mum and she’s coming down tomorrow,’ Matt said. ‘And I’ve taken a couple of days off work. They know that Polly is ill and we don’t have family here.’
   ‘You have us,’ Franceska stated, simply.
   ‘Yes, and I don’t know what we would have done without you, thank you so much.’
   ‘No thanks needed. You must go and take care of your wife and son, but we are here if you need anything.’
   ‘I left so much to Polly, the least I can do now is to look after my son. Am I the worst father and husband ever?’
   ‘No, Matt, you are working hard, it isn’t easy to see. And Polly, she not want you to see her struggle, or have you worry, so it’s a bad circle.’
   ‘A vicious circle,’ Matt said.
   ‘Sorry?’
   ‘That’s how we say it, a vicious circle. Sorry, I didn’t mean to correct your English.’
   ‘No, is good. We need to learn. Look, I come with you and show you to feed Henry so he is OK. I feel I should tell you that the doctor give Polly something to stop her milk. She says the breastfeeding is making her worse. Henry is fine and he is eating food now so formula will be OK and it mean you can feed him too, and her mother. Polly needs rest a lot right now.’
   ‘I’ll see that she gets it. I still feel bad, like I buried my head in the sand and kept telling myself that it wasn’t that bad, that she would snap out of it.’
   ‘It’s hard, postnatal depression is real illness, but she will get better. Now she can start. You are a good man, Matt, and she love you very much.’
   I felt a little uncertain as I left the flat with Franceska, Henry and Matt. But I wanted to be there for Matt. Even if he didn’t know it, it made me feel better to be by his side. So I stayed in the living room, quietly, as he fed Henry as per Franceska’s instructions, and then bathed him and eventually put him down to sleep. I sat with Matt on the sofa as he came into the living room and wept like a baby. After a while, he sat up straighter.
   ‘My falling apart won’t help anyone. Come on, Alfie, I’ll make us some dinner. I’m sure we have a can of tuna in the cupboard.’ It was the first time I had ever dined with them but I didn’t care about the food, I was just unsure that they should be left alone. I knew I couldn’t reallydo anything, but I also thought my presence might be a comfort.
   A bit later, Matt went to check on Polly; I went with him. She opened her beautiful eyes and looked at him.
   ‘What time is it?’ she asked, sleepily.
   ‘It doesn’t matter. Henry’s asleep. According to the list Franceska left me, you can take another pill. You need to sleep.’ Polly tried to sit up.
   ‘Is he all right?’ she asked. Her eyes filled with tears.
   ‘Yes, he’s perfect. And I know that as soon as you start getting better, you’ll think that too.’
   ‘I feel like I’ve failed. I’m a terrible mum, a bad wife, and I just didn’t know how to stop feeling like that.’
   Matt stroked her hair, gently.‘Darling, I feel I’ve failed you both. I should have taken better care of you, seen that you weren’t yourself. I feel terrible too.’
   ‘There’s not going to be any point in us blaming ourselves or each other is there?’ she asked, her eyes widening. Matt shook his head. ‘Frankie said that. She said that we would do, but it wouldn’t help, so we must stop it. I’m going to try. The doctor was really lovely, it was a woman and she understood, or seemed to. I didn’t want to have to take anything but I know that I need the pills. I can and will get help. I’ll be fine and I’ll look after my baby; our baby. All I want is to be a good mother.’
   ‘Of course you will be, darling.’ Matt had tears swimming in his eyes. ‘And I’m going to be here every step of the way. I love you so much, please Pol, never forget that.’
   ‘I did forget but only because my head was so cloudy, but I know and I love you too.’ He hugged her very tightly and this was the most moving scene I had ever watched between humans.
   ‘Oh, and your mum is coming down. I’m sorry but we need her here, as I can’t take too much time off work. I wish I could.’
   ‘No, Matt, we both agreed about coming to live here for your promotion. You don’t need to feel guilty about that. And having Mum here, well, that’ll be such a relief.’ They sat in silence for a few minutes. I lay down on the floor, suddenly feeling fatigued by the day’s events; it had been so emotional. ‘It was like a big black hole inside me, that’s what it felt like. I wanted to take Henry somewhere and leave him. Just run away and be back to my old self. I love him, I know I do deep down, but I can’t feel it. I can’t feel the joy that mums talk about. It’s horrible, Matt, so horrible.’ She wept and he held her.
   ‘I can’t imagine what it must feel like, but I will support you whatever happens. But you need to talk to me. No matter how bad you feel, you have to tell me about it. I’m not going to leave you; I love you and I love our family. There is nothing you can do to change that.’
   ‘You don’t know how amazing it is for me to hear that. I wish I’d been a bit more honest with you. When I felt as if I was getting ill, not long after Henry’s birth, and even before we came here, I felt that I needed to hide it at all costs. But it nearly cost too much.’
   ‘Polly, I think you’re amazing and brave and I know we’ll get through this. It might take time but it doesn’t matter. We can do it.’
   ‘Can we go and see him? I don’t want to wake him, I just want to look at him. I need to.’ She burst into fresh tears.
   ‘Come on,’ Matt said, scooping her up in his arms as if she weighed as much as Henry. I was too sleepy to follow them through to the bedroom.
   ‘It looks as if Alfie is staying with us tonight,’ Matt said, as I felt myself drifting off.
   ‘He looks so cosy, don’t disturb him,’ I heard Polly say as I fell fast asleep.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_032.jpg]
   Chapter Thirty-One
   If I thought being a doorstep cat had been hectic before, I had no idea just how exhausting things would become. I had built myself a little community and everyone around me had become important to me in their different ways. But I couldn’t be in four places at once.
   Back and forth I went, trying to keep my eye on everyone who needed me, and it seemed that everyone did.
   It wasn’t too long a walk between all my homes but I seemed to do it a lot. I was a fit cat, but at times I did find the trek a little bit tiring. When I arrived at the flats, I found Franceska and Matt outside with the boys. They were playing on the grass, just as they had done previously with Polly. As usual, Aleksy greeted me as if I was his best friend. Franceska and Matt had mugs in their hands. Henry was lying on his tummy on the blanket, and Thomasz was looking at a book. Aleksy started to tickle me and I rolled on my back for him.
   ‘She’s been asleep on and off since she came back from the doctor yesterday. I hope it’s helping,’ Matt was saying.
   ‘It will help her. She is so tired that part of the depression is exhaustion. Like you say, is vicious circle.’ Franceska and Matt laughed, sadly.
   ‘I’m going to get her mum from the train station later. Having her here will make a big difference I think, but then, she can’t stay with us forever.’
   ‘Matt, she won’t need to. Polly will get better, and quicker than you think.’ I felt tears in my cat eyes at the thought of the beautiful fragile woman, but I hoped Franceska was right. She would get better.
   Before the breakdown, I had thought she was improving. She had seemed much brighter. But then before Joe, Claire had seemed better too. I was learning that with humans, like food, you were best off taking nothing for granted.
   After a bit more playing, Franceska organised lunch for the boys and Matt joined her. He said he didn’t want to disturb Polly, but I could also see he was anxious and didn’t seem to want to be on his own.
   ‘You make the formula for Henry and I mash some vegetables,’ Franceska said.
   ‘Are you sure you don’t mind?’
   ‘Don’t be silly. I make vegetables for my boys and then mash them for Henry. Is easy. Is easy, if we all eat together anyway. I have soup for us? Is a Polish, um, beetroot borscht?’
   ‘I’ve never had it.’ Matt looked a bit dubious.
   ‘Thomasz make it at his restaurant, is very good. You try?’
   ‘Of course, I’d love to try it.’ Matt was very polite but I wasn’t convinced by his tone. And when I saw the colour of this bright red stuff, I wasn’t sure about it either. Luckily, Franceska had sardines for me.
   After lunch, they all went out for a walk, and then Franceska took Henry, so that Matt could go and check on Polly before collecting her mother from the train station. I stayed a bit longer to play with the boys. Thomasz was getting more and more interested in me now, copying his older brother, so it was doubly exhausting. By the time I scratched at the door to be let out, I was tired from all the playing, full from my sardines. For once, the walk back to my other homes was a good thing.
   I went to check on Claire first, as I was pretty sure Jonathan wasn’t home from work yet. I realised, as I entered through the cat flap, that I had become scared of this house; my fur was standing on end. It wasn’t a nice feeling. Claire had been my first owner and she had made me so welcome that to feel I was intruding in my own home unnerved me. Claire was in the kitchen, but she had clearly been crying as she turned to me.
   ‘Alfie, you’re here at last!’ She picked me up. ‘I was beginning to get worried, it’s been nearly two days. Honestly Alfie, I wish I knew where you went when you’re not here. Have you got a girlfriend?’ Claire asked. I miaowed, guiltily. ‘Let’s get you some food. I know that you’re a cat and you like to go out and about, but remember that I worry about you if I don’t see you.’ She spoke softly but I felt as if I was being told off. I miaowed, trying to tell her that if she got rid of Joe I wouldn’t be so nervous about coming home, but I knew that she wouldn’t understand me. I nuzzled into her neck to say sorry instead.
   ‘What’s all the racket?’ Joe asked, coming into the kitchen. He was dressed as usual, in jeans and a T-shirt, but I also noticed he was getting a bit thicker around his stomach. The thinner Claire got, the fatter he got.
   ‘Alfie’s back. I’m just going to feed him,’ she said putting me down and getting some cat food out of the cupboard.
   ‘You treat that cat better than you treat me,’ he said, sounding angry.
   ‘Don’t be silly,’ Claire replied, laughing.
   ‘Don’t bloody laugh at me,’ he shouted, suddenly. I recoiled, as did Claire.
   ‘I’m not—’ she began.
   ‘You are. And you know what, I’ve had enough. You treat me like a fool. Just because I lost my job, through no fault of my own, you think you can walk all over me.’ I literally curled myself into a ball near the kitchen cupboards. I was frightened but I had no idea what to do. After Joe’s previous attempts to hurt me, I wasn’t sure just what he was capable of. He started to loom towards us and then seemed to change his mind; he turned around and punched the wall. It was a sudden, violent move and Claire screamed. He hadn’t hit her or me, but he frightened us both. There was silence for a while.
   ‘Joe, I think you ought to leave,’ Claire said, her voice quivering. I uncurled myself and almost jumped for joy. Joe’s face darkened, then suddenly it seemed to change.
   ‘I’m sorry, gosh I’m so sorry.’ He rubbed his hand. ‘I just lost my temper; I’ve never done that before.’ He moved towards Claire, who shrank further back. I went to stand protectively in front of her. I wanted to tell Claire he was a liar, but I couldn’t.
   ‘Joe, you’ve put a great big hole in my wall, and you say you didn’t mean to lose your temper?’ she pointed out. She sounded scared, not angry.
   ‘Oh God, I’m sorry. What have I done?’ Then to my amazement, he started to cry.
   ‘Joe, don’t cry,’ Claire said, softening.
   ‘I’m sorry. What must you think of me? Claire, I never behave like this but I am just so upset by the whole job thing, the fact I’ve lost my flat and I feel like I’m totally sponging off you.’
   ‘But I don’t mind. I know it’s not forever; you’ll soon get another job and be back on your feet.’ Her voice was no longer angry; he was so good at manipulating her. I was losing hope.
   ‘I wish. There’s a recession. No one is hiring at the moment. I might get some freelance work but I feel like a complete loser. I had a good job, and now look at me.’
   ‘Joe,’ Claire said, and went over to him. She put her arms around him, to my despair and disgust. ‘I love you, and I’m here to support you in whatever way you need. Now stop being silly and never lose your temper like that again.’ It was funny to hear Claire sounding as if she was a bit more in control, but I was furious that she had forgiven him so easily. He was clearly going to lose his temper again; men like him always did. And he didn’t make her happy. She must be mad if she thought he did.
   ‘I promise, Claire, I love you so much, I’ll make it up to you, I promise.’
   ‘You can start by fixing the wall.’ She laughed, weakly.
   I stalked out in an unnoticed protest, and went to Jonathan’s. He had obviously been home from work for a while, as he already had his gym clothes on.
   ‘Oh, there you are, I wondered where you’d got to. I guess you’ve been flirting with female cats.’ I miaowed but wanted to say, ‘Actually, no. I’ve been in the presence of a madman who frightened me and I would very much like you to go and sort him out.’
   ‘Anyway, have some dinner and then you can have a rest. Flirting is hard work.’ I purred. ‘High five,’ Jonathan said, and I looked at him blankly. ‘You know, you put your hand, or paw, up and I’ll do the same.’ I raised my paw and he tapped it with his hand. ‘You clever cat, you learnt to do your first trick. I knew I was right to get rid of Philippa rather than you,’ he laughed. I looked at him in surprise. Raising my paw got such a response? It wasn’t as if I’d actually spoken or even danced. Honestly, humans could be so happy with so little.
   Jonathan and I dined together before he left. I didn’t feel like going out again. I was incredibly tired from my day, both physically and emotionally, so I sought out my cashmere blanket and lay down to rest. I played the events over in my mind, and I felt that I was getting there. Franceska and her family were all right and in comparison to the others they were not going to face anything too major. That was my take on it anyway. Polly, although still ill, was going to get better. I was pretty sure of that. And Jonathan, well, he was still alone in the big house, apart from yours truly, but he seemed upbeat. I really liked him now. So that left me with Claire.
   I had seen how frightening Joe could be first hand today. And I knew that it wasn’t going to be an isolated incident. I thought he would definitely lash out again. And next time, it would be Claire he hurt. I was sure of it.
   The idea of that brute hurting my Claire upset me so much. He obviously had some kind of hold over her and I didn’t know where it would lead but instinctively I knew it wouldn’t be good. When would it end? I had no idea, but it had to. I felt instinctively that there must be something I could do to make it stop; I just wasn’t yet sure what. As I drifted off to sleep on my soft, lovely blanket I said a cat prayer that an answer would come to me, and soon, before it was too late.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_033.jpg]
   Chapter Thirty-Two
   I awoke knowing the answer. It was still dark outside but the dawn chorus was about to start. No wonder cats chased and killed birds, the racket they made first thing in the morning really was unnecessary. I looked over at a sleeping Jonathan. He looked so peaceful, so content. Although inside I felt terror at what was to come, I tried to be comforted by his presence.
   It was going to be a risk, I knew that. My plan, which had somehow formulated in my sleep, was foolhardy to say the least. But I also knew that it was what I had to do, which meant taking the chance and hoping with every ounce of my cat being that this plan worked out.
   I nestled into Jonathan. One thing I knew was that today everything would change and I wanted him to know that I loved him no matter what. He slept soundly with me by his side for a while before his clock started beeping and he sat up. I jumped up onto his chest and smiled at him again.
   ‘Alfie, what are you doing in my bed?’ he asked, but not unkindly. I miaowed. He laughed, patted me affectionately and then got out of bed.
   I managed to get downstairs but my legs were feeling a little bit weak. I had never thought of myself as a brave cat. Let’s face it, when I first lived with Margaret and Agnes I was anything but brave, and then when Agnes decided to like me I had no need to be brave. But when I lost them both, there was a courage that reared up in me; one I had no idea I possessed, and that’s how I survived. So my legs might not feel brave, but my resolve didn’t waver.
   I waited in the kitchen for Jonathan to come downstairs, and when he did, he made coffee, poured me some milk, put some toast on and gave me some cold salmon that he’d cooked. I savoured the breakfast, as I realised it might be my last for a while.
   ‘Right, Alfie, I’m off, but I’ll see you after work,’ Jonathan said, standing up. I crossed my paws that he would.
   I set off to see Claire. When I arrived, she looked as if she hadn’t slept. She was distracted as she patted me and I could see in her eyes that she was scared too. She wasn’t happy with Joe, anyone could see that, but she also seemed to think that being alone was a bad thing. I had heard about this with humans, that some people would rather be with someone, even if they weren’t happy, than on their own. Claire was one of those people, I’d decided. But seeing her, the state she was in, and then looking at the hole still glaring out from the wall, made me even more determined to see my plan through.
   I left the house with Claire, who was going to work. I walked a little way down the street with her until she had to turn off.
   ‘You take care, Alfie, and I’ll see you tonight.’ I rubbed against her leg and knew she definitely would.
   It was time to take my shaky legs to the flats at number 22, where I scratched at the door before Franceska let me in.
   ‘Alfie,’ Aleksy and Thomasz said in unison and they proceeded to make a big fuss of me. I was affectionate with both boys and they rewarded me by tickling my tummy as I lay on my back. They didn’t seem to mind doing this for ages and I lapped up all the wonderful sensations while I could. I played with them until Franceska said it was time to go and see Polly. I hadn’t seen Polly since that day with the doctor so I was pleased to go too.
   The lady that answered the door wasn’t Polly but an older lady, quite elegant and not as old as Margaret.
   ‘Franceska, how nice to see you,’ she said, smiling.
   ‘Hi, Val. We just want to see how is Polly. If there is anything we can do?’
   ‘Yes, you can come in, she would love to see you, and the boys can entertain Henry.’ She stepped aside and I followed them into the flat. ‘Oh hello, you must be Alfie, the hero cat.’ I purred. I decided I liked this woman.
   Polly was wearing her pyjamas but she looked beautiful and a little better. Franceska gave her a big hug as the boys went straight to where Henry was sitting on his play mat, surrounded by cushions.
   ‘Frankie, it’s so nice to see you,’ Polly said. ‘Now I’ve slept for so long, I’m feeling a bit better.’
   ‘Good, but you take time.’
   ‘I’ll pop the kettle on, shall I?’ Polly’s mum asked.
   ‘Thank you, Mum.’
   ‘I can help?’ Franceska asked.
   ‘No, love, you sit and keep my daughter company.’ She left the room.
   ‘So, are you OK, Frankie?’
   ‘We very good. Aleksy start his school next week and I find nursery for Thomasz. Is good for him to meet children and also I get a part-time job. Just a shop or something but good for me.’
   ‘Actually that sounds great. Improve your English, meet people. I never asked what you did in Poland, for work?’
   ‘My family had a grocery shop, so I worked there. Not so exciting but I like. I like serving people and having chats.’
   ‘Aleksy?’ Polly said. He turned round. I was surprised; it was the first time I had heard Polly talk directly to him, but I guess she didn’t know that.
   ‘Yes?’ he said.
   ‘Yes, Polly,’ his mum corrected.
   ‘Sorry. Yes, Polly.’ Polly laughed.
   ‘Are you excited about your new school?’
   ‘I am yes, so, but I am also a bit scared.’
   ‘Right, well, I think that we should go to the shops and you can choose a cool school bag and pencil case; it’ll be a starting school present from Matt and me.’
   ‘Wow, really? I can have Spiderman?’
   ‘Whatever you want.’
   ‘Polly,’ Franceska started.
   ‘No, please, Frankie. I can never repay what you’ve done and I hope you don’t need me in the way I needed you, but let me treat the boys. And also, I need an outing some time soon, I can’t fester in here forever. A trip to buy a Spiderman bag might do me the world of good.’
   ‘OK, thank you.’
   Val returned with the tea and they all chatted like old friends. The boys played with both Henry and me and I felt emotional as I knew what was happening next. But although I was leaving them, I knew they would be all right. They were happy, and while Polly wasn’t exactly back to normal, she was at least more cheerful than she’d been. I could tell when she picked Henry up and kissed him. I had never seen her do that before. Henry barely cried the whole time I was there. It felt as if a miracle had happened in the flats at number 22.
   Before lunch, they decided to take a walk to the park.
   ‘I need some fresh air,’ Polly said. ‘Let me quickly throw on some clothes.’ That was a curious expression, I thought, but she returned wearing jeans and a T-shirt. They started getting their shoes on. Henry was strapped into his smaller pushchair and Thomasz insisted on walking. They set off, and they turned round to me as I stood at the gate.
   ‘Bye, Alfie,’ Aleksy said.
   ‘Bye, Alfie,’ Thomasz mimicked. Both Polly and Franceska bent down to stroke me.
   ‘If you come back at lunch time, I’ll buy you some fish on our way back,’ Polly said. I miaowed with joy.
   ‘You’d swear he understood you!’ Val pointed out.
   ‘He very clever cat,’ Franceska replied. ‘Of course he understood.’
   I rushed to see Tiger after leaving. I took the back way, which was slightly quicker; jumping fences and dodging snarling dogs. When I arrived, she was sunning herself in the back garden. I told her immediately of my plan and she looked stricken. She actually yowled at me in annoyance, but I tried to explain the thinking behind it. She called me all kinds of cat names, telling me I was an idiot. Then she cried out and said she was scared for me because we didn’t know how it would turn out. She said I was a very brave, very stupid cat indeed. And I couldn’t do anything but agree with her. We eventually had an affectionate goodbye and I promised that I would do whatever I could to make sure I came back to her in one piece.
   I tried to forget about the visit with Tiger and what lay in store as I hastened back to number 22 for my fish.
   ‘We go to my flat,’ Franceska said, as I met her outside with the boys. ‘Henry is sleeping and Val makes Polly rest too, so I have your fish.’ I purred with pleasure and followed them up the stairs.
   Aleksy put the television on, and Thomasz sat on the floor as close to it as he could get. Franceska, who was in the kitchen, shouted,‘Too close, Thomasz, move.’ And she laughed. I wondered if she could see through walls. Cats have wonderful sight and can sense objects but even we can’t do that. I followed her into the kitchen and waited for my lunch. As promised, she cooked me some fish and then served it. It was like being a human, apart from the fact that I ate from the floor. I ate quickly and then cleaned myself as she fed both the boys and herself.
   After lunch she put a reluctant Thomasz down for a nap and spent time reading with Aleksy.
   ‘Is hard to read English,’ he complained.
   ‘Yes but you are doing good. Soon you will be better than your mamma.’
   ‘Will I like school?’ he asked, looking worried.
   ‘You will love it, just like you did in Poland.’
   ‘But with different language.’
   ‘Yes and the teachers say they will be very kind to you and help you, so you must not worry.’ I could see that, for all her reassurances, Franceska was concerned about her boy.
   ‘And if Polly buys me a bag, I will be very happy.’ Aleksy squirmed as his mum kissed him and cuddled him.
   After reading for a while, Aleksy got out his toy cars and tried to make me chase them. I did, but my stomach wasn’t feeling good. My nerves were growing and although I tried to make the game fun, my heart wasn’t really in it. I told myself off. If this was to be our last play for a while, or, I shuddered at the thought, even longer, then the least I could do was to have fun. So I let Aleksy push the car, which I chased and then tried to roll it back to him with my little paw. It wasn’t that easy. He laughed with glee when I did this. We played for what felt like a very long time, before I had to leave. It was time for me to go and put the very scary plan into action.
   As I bade everyone goodbye I memorised their faces and hoped sincerely that I would see them again soon.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_034.jpg]
   Chapter Thirty-Three
   My legs were shaking as I approached Claire’s house. Tiger was waiting for me outside and she gave me a quick nuzzle and wished me luck. She asked me to reconsider but I said I couldn’t; something told me that this had to be done for the good of Claire, whom I loved so much. I might have been angry with her, I might have been annoyed athow weak she was, but I loved her and she needed me. I felt as if I was all she had and although that didn’t feel like much, I hoped that now it would be enough for her.
   I leapt with more energy than I felt through the cat flap and stood still for a moment. I could sense that Claire wasn’t home yet. Joe was in the living room watching television. I took a breath and felt my fur stand on end. I remembered last feeling this level of terror when I first started being a homeless cat. My little cat heart was beating so fast that it was almost jumping out of my body.
   I sat outside the living room, waiting. I wasn’t sure how long I was there before I heard Claire walking down the path and I thanked God for giving us cats such excellent hearing. Timing was everything. I ran into the living room and jumped straight up onto Joe’s lap. He looked surprised and then, as I had guessed he would be, angry.
   ‘Get off me you stupid moggy,’ he shouted and I hissed at him before lashing out and scratching his arm. I closed my eyes, as I had predicted what would follow.
   ‘You stupid bloody cat, I hate you,’ he said, as he threw me across the room. I curled myself into a tight ball and when I felt myself falling, I put my legs out and landed straight. Claire had entered the house, so I yowled as loudly as I could.
   Joe darted across the room and began to kick me repeatedly. The pain seared through my entire body, and I could no longer even cry out.
   ‘Oh my God, what the hell, get off him, get the hell off him, you bastard!’ I heard Claire cry before everything went black.
   I wasn’t sure, despite watching lots of hospital dramas with Margaret, whether I was conscious, unconscious or something in between. I knew I wasn’t dead because I hadn’t seen Agnes or Margaret and I was pretty sure that in death I would. I was warm though, although it felt as if we were moving as the pain seared through me. I could vaguely hear voices and was reassured that one of them was Claire’s.
   ‘What have I done?’ she cried. ‘I let him use me and now he’s gone and nearly killed Alfie. Oh God, if he dies, I’ll never forgive myself.’
   ‘Claire,’ it was Tasha’s voice I could now make out. ‘You were vulnerable after the divorce. We thought you were better but that wasn’t real, was it? You still felt worthless and I should have seen that. But Joe, well he did see it. Men like him sense these things. You can’t blame yourself. Look, Alfie will be OK, we’re nearly at the vet and I know he’s going to make it through.’ But she didn’t sound sure, I could hear it in her voice. ‘And he saved you.’
   ‘You know, Alfie watched him punch a wall the other day. I bet he thought he would have done it to me next.’
   ‘He would have done if you hadn’t kicked him out.’
   ‘I know that now. When he was kicking a poor defenceless cat I suddenly woke up and finally found the strength I never thought I had. I pulled him away, I was so angry that I shoved him and hit him myself, but then he started to do the whole “sorry” thing. Unbelievable! This time, I wouldn’t have it. I told him if he didn’t get out in five minutes I’d call the police.’
   ‘What did he do?’
   ‘He cried, just like when he punched the wall, but I stood firm. I was too scared to pick Alfie up, which is why I called you. There was blood everywhere and he wasn’t moving. Joe was still standing there, not going anywhere, so I told him to get out again, and then he got nasty. So with the phone in my hand I dialled 999 and told him: one more step and I’d press the call button.’
   ‘And that was when he finally left?’
   ‘Yes, but not before calling me all the filthy names under the sun.’
   ‘He was horrible.’
   ‘But why didn’t I see it?’
   ‘I don’t know, if I’m honest. I thought he controlled you. But then when you want something badly enough, you only see what you want to see. Claire, you have to learn from this; there are, unfortunately, lots of men like Joe out there.’
   ‘I am so sorry and stupid and I’ll never forgive myself if anything happens to Alfie.’
   ‘That sort of attitude, calling yourself stupid, got you into the mess in the first place.’ I could hear that Tasha was being very real with Claire, which I liked, and Claire was crying, which I didn’t like, but as I drifted off back to the blackness, there was very little I could do about anything any more.
   My plan had worked, I had got rid of Joe at last. I just hoped the cost wasn’t too high.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_035.jpg]
   Chapter Thirty-Four
   I don’t know how many days had passed in this strange place. I was in an animal hospital, where the vet had done various things to me. He said I had to stay there, as I was barely conscious. I vaguely heard talk of an operation and I had been given injections that made the blackness come. I could hearvoices, but not always make out what they were saying. I was being given pain medication that took the pain away, but left me feeling drowsy. I wasn’t scared any more because I didn’t have the energy for such emotions. I felt as if I was mainly sleeping. But not normal sleep, with fish-filled dreams, but sleep where nothing happened and nothing was going to happen.
   One day I woke up and opened my eyes. I flicked my whiskers, which were still there. Although I couldn’t quite move, I felt my brain was a bit more normal again.
   ‘Alfie,’ a woman said. I looked at her. She wore a green coat and had her hair tied back. She seemed kind, though. ‘I’m Nicole, one of the nurses who have been looking after you. It’s good to see your eyes finally. The vet will be along to see you in a minute.’
   And then I knew I was getting better. The vet prodded and poked me and I hissed at him but he laughed at that. Nicole stroked me and then said I was well enough for Claire to come and visit me now.
   I nearly cried with happiness when Claire arrived with Tasha to see me. It was a bit of a struggle to keep my eyes open but I did, just long enough to see her looking much better as she had done after her weekend away; more like her pre-Joe self.
   ‘Oh, Alfie, they told me you’re going to be all right,’ she cried, tears streaming down her cheeks, but tears of happiness, I presumed.
   ‘Thank goodness, you’re looking more like your cute self again. This has been the longest week of my life,’ Claire said, ‘but if you carry on like you’re doing, then in another week, you could be home with me again.’
   ‘And don’t worry, there is no Joe any more,’ Tasha said.
   ‘No, he’s long gone and no one else will ever come between us. You saved me, Alfie, I know you did.’
   ‘Don’t you think it’s weird?’ Tasha said.
   ‘What?’ Claire asked.
   ‘That it happened the way it did?’
   ‘What do you mean?’
   ‘Well it’s almost as if he planned it. Joe punches a wall and scares you both, then a day or so later, you come in from work and find him kicking your cat.’
   ‘Because he’s a brute and I still hate to think about it,’ Claire snapped.
   ‘But no, I mean, he claimed that Alfie attacked him, right? Well what if he did? What if he provoked Joe to make sure that he would never hurt you?’
   ‘I know Alfie’s clever, but he’s not that clever. Tash, are you crazy? He’s a cat.’
   I smiled to myself as I drifted back to sleep.
   Claire visited a lot over the next few days and I regained my strength. I could stand up again, as nothing had been broken, thankfully, although I still felt pain and the vet said I might not be as agile as I once was. But I didn’t care, because I could still walk, and although I had internal injuries, I had apparently been a very lucky cat. I didn’t feel it at the time, or afterwards, but maybe I had been.
   A few days before I was due to go home, Claire arrived again, but not with Tasha this time. I was awake but very drowsy, having just had some medication, and I couldn’t easily open my eyes. But the voice I heard was unmistakable.
   ‘Alfie!’ he cried. ‘God, what happened to you?’ My Jonathan! I tried, but failed, to open my eyes.
   ‘So, you’re saying Alfie’s your cat?’ Claire sounded annoyed.
   ‘I told you he was my cat! I’ve been bloody looking everywhere for him.’
   ‘I saw your posters but I didn’t think it could be the same cat, because he’s mine,’ Claire stated.
   ‘What, despite the posters saying that I was missing a little grey cat called Alfie?’ Jonathan’s voice was angry as it had been when I first met him.
   ‘Well, yes, I can see how you might think that now.’ Claire sounded slightly contrite.
   ‘So, despite the fact that he looks exactly the same and has the same name, you still thought it was a different cat?’ I was glad Jonathan clearly hadn’t been changed by my absence.
   ‘Well, I mean, he’s my cat.’
   ‘So you say, but how many cats called Alfie that look like him do you think there are in one street in London?’ I could hear the impatience in his voice.
   ‘I just didn’t … I’m sorry, he must be living with both of us.’
   ‘I guess it explains why he disappears so much.’
   ‘I always wondered about that,’ Claire said.
   ‘I can’t believe I’ve been putting those posters up for over a week and you didn’t even think to call me.’
   ‘I only saw it the other day, and then, as I keep saying, I didn’t think it could be the same cat. So tonight, when I actually saw you putting up more posters I finally clicked, didn’t I?’ Claire didn’t sound as much a pushover as usual. She was standing up to Jonathan, which amused me.
   ‘I’ve been worried sick.’
   ‘Of course, I understand and I’m sorry. I mean it. But I did think he was my cat!’ I tried to miaow to remind them that I was there, but no sound came out.
   ‘And what about the kid?’ My ears pricked up. Did they mean Aleksy? I was beginning to feel loved. Jonathan had missed me and had been looking for me and maybe the families at number 22 were too?
   ‘Look, I honestly only saw your poster. I didn’t see the other one, with the drawing of a cat on it, until you showed me.’ Claire sounded flustered now. ‘And even if I had, I’m not sure the picture of the cat looked anything like my Alfie,’ she tried a weak laugh.
   ‘The kid, or I guess it’s a kid, unless it’s a very incompetent adult who drew it, must be really upset.’
   ‘I know and I feel bad but I didn’t know quite what a flirt Alfie was!’ She laughed. ‘He must have been getting fed everywhere.’
   ‘Yes, I’m guessing that this little monkey of a cat was pretty well fed and looked after. That’s three houses that we know of. Goodness knows how many more there might be. Look, let’s go see the kid when we leave here. If they’re anything like me, they’ll be worried sick about Alfie.’
   ‘I really am sorry.’
   ‘If I ever see the bastard that did this to Alfie, I’ll kill him. Who could do that to a defenceless cat? What total, utter scum.’ Darkness clouded Jonathan’s face.
   ‘I know and I wish I’d called the police or something. I feel so responsible and terrible for letting it happen to him.’
   ‘I suppose it’s not your fault entirely,’ Jonathan said, not thawing all the way, but perhaps sounding slightly less angry.
   ‘It is. That’s the problem, it’s completely my fault.’
   ‘It can’t have been easy for you, having to see him get hurt,’ Jonathan conceded. Claire burst into tears. Managing to open one eye, I saw Jonathan pat her awkwardly on the shoulder and it suddenly struck me how good they looked together; albeit a bit blurry through my sleepy eyes.
   ‘I’m sorry, Jonathan.’
   ‘Don’t be. He’s going to be all right.’ I saw Claire nod her head.
   ‘Oh Alfie,’ Claire said, reaching in to stroke me through the bars of my cage. ‘It seems that you are one very loved cat.’
   I knew then that my recovery would be swift, because I was loved and I loved each and every one of them too. And besides, I had a new, and hopefully far less dangerous, plan to occupy myself with now.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_036.jpg]
   Chapter Thirty-Five
   It was the day to go home and I was so excited. No more cage, not that it was that bad, but it was hardly The Ritz. And although they had encouraged me to exercise, I had been confined. Now I would go back to my life of wandering the length of Edgar Road, perhaps not quite jumping the fences as I used to, but having a go at the very least. I was so looking forward to seeing all my families and Tiger too, although I wasn’t sure if they were cross with me now they had all discovered each other. I hoped not.
   Claire came to collect me and although I wasn’t happy about it, she and the vet bundled me into my cat basket. I screeched, not with pain, but because I find it very undignified being shoved into one of those.
   ‘He really ought to be kept in one place for a while. I would recommend that he exercise, but gently. He should be able to figure it out, but I want him kept in for at least one more week and then I’d like you to bring him in for a check-up,’ the vet instructed. I tried to scowl at her from the cat carrier; that didn’t sound like fun and it wasn’t what I had planned.
   ‘Don’t worry, I’ll take good care of him.’
   Jonathan stood at the desk, waiting for both Claire and me. I was delighted to see him.
   ‘I just need to pay the bill,’ Claire said, as the lady on the desk handed it to her.
   ‘Jesus,’ Jonathan said, whistling. ‘Bloody expensive.’
   ‘Well, as he’s your cat too, maybe you’d like to chip in,’ Claire said. Jonathan looked shocked, but then Claire laughed. ‘Only joking. I have insurance.’
   ‘You have insurance?’ Jonathan asked, incredulously, as if he’d never heard of it.
   ‘Yes, Alfie is my cat and so of course I have him insured.’
   ‘Never occurred to me,’ Jonathan said.
   ‘Well that doesn’t surprise me,’ Claire retorted. ‘I bet you forget to feed him if you go away as well, don’t you?’ Jonathan had the grace to look bashful, because he did.
   ‘Well, with four homes, I’m sure he never goes hungry.’
   ‘Not the point. Right, let’s get going, we’ve got a party to go to.’ I felt indignant myself then, they were having a party on my first day back?
   Jonathan parked his car outside his house and he carried me in, with Claire following behind. They had bickered about me the entire journey home, until I was sure that it was only a matter of time before they realised they were meant for each other. Perhaps it wasn’t immediately obvious, because they were arguing and Claire had just got out of a volatile relationship, but actually, to me, they made perfect sense. Their arguing was different; softer, and not as aggressive. Not only that, but Claire gave as good as she got. She wasn’t timid around him. Shewas the Claire I knew she should be. Call it cat’s intuition, but I just knew in my heart that these two could love each other as much as I loved them.
   I was growing happier by the minute. Especially with thoughts of prawns and my cashmere blanket, of Aleksy and our ball games, of seeing how Polly was, and Henry and the two Thomaszes, and of course, not forgetting my lovely Franceska. Oh, how I had missed them, I thought, as I smiled broadly and waited to be let out of the cat carrier.
   Jonathan put me down in the hallway and opened the door. He picked me up and carried me to the kitchen. I was still upset that they were leaving me to go to a party but as the door opened, I miaowed in surprise.
   ‘Alfie,’ Aleksy shouted, and ran over. He stopped just in front of Jonathan. There was a colourful banner pinned to the wall, and around Jonathan’s kitchen table were Franceska, the two Thomaszes, Matt, Polly and Henry. I couldn’t believe it. These people didn’t know each other and here they were, all together.
   ‘You’ve been rumbled, Alfie,’ Matt laughed.
   ‘What is rumbled?’ Aleksy asked.
   ‘We found out he have four homes, well, not that he lives with us, but he visits us,’ Franceska laughed.
   ‘Yes, Alfie, we look for you and I draw picture but we no find you and we worry. But then they tell us you were hurt.’ Aleksy looked tearful.
   ‘Here, Aleksy, if you’re very gentle, you can hold him.’ Jonathan passed me to Aleksy who kissed me. Claire had joined us. It was so funny seeing all my families here together. I studied them while I nestled into Aleksy. Polly looked more gorgeous than ever and definitely much better as she bounced Henry on her lap. Thomasz and Matt looked the same. Franceska looked as in control as ever, and little Thomasz looked as if he had grown in my absence. But Claire looked wonderful. I had seen her at the vet’s but not really taken her in. She was beginning to blossom again; she seemed to have put on a little bit of weight – I noticed these things – and her cheeks were gaining colour. She was beautiful, I thought, as was Jonathan.
   Jonathan took me from Aleksy and put me in the bed that was usually at Claire’s house. They put my food down next to me: salmon and prawns, the best meal ever.
   They made a fuss of me and everyone gave me presents. It was like it was my birthday! Aleksy and Thomasz had drawn me pictures, which were of a cat and a car. The children had been told that I had been hit by a car whilst crossing the road, so that they weren’t distressed by what had really happened. I minded slightly, I had crossed half of London dodging traffic, for goodness sake, I think I knew my Green Cross Code.
   ‘You must be careful crossing the road,’ Aleksy said to me, and Jonathan winked.
   ‘There’s one last present,’ Jonathan said.
   ‘Long overdue,’ Claire added. She reached over to me and gently removed my collar. She took off the tag that tied me to Margaret. She held up a new one and everyone clapped. ‘Alfie, this has your name and all of our phone numbers etched on it. All four of your families, so you’ll never be lost again.’
   People say cats can’t cry but I promise you, I had tears swimming in my eyes.
   I was exhausted, but they were being gentle and loving with me, everyone saying how much they’d missed me. My heart swelled so much I thought it would outgrow my body. Seeing all my families sitting around at Jonathan’s house was the best present ever.
   They talked about a rota. I was to stay at Claire’s whilst I was getting better, and she had taken some time off work to nurse me. Then Jonathan said he had taken different days off to take care of me too. Apparently I needed my medicine regularly, and I needed to be quiet.
   ‘There’s a sweet cat that seems to have been looking for you too,’ Claire said. ‘The one who lives next door to me.’ I wondered if Tiger would come and visit me as well. That would complete my friends and family.
   Eventually, when Aleksy was promised he could visit me after school, and Polly said she would bring Henry round and sit with me when Claire had to go to the shops, and each and every one of them had kissed me and petted me gently, they all left.
   Jonathan carried me back to Claire’s house and settled me downstairs. They said I wasn’t up to managing the stairs yet and I felt quite weak, so I guessed they were right.
   ‘Will you stay for a drink?’ Claire asked him, when I had curled up to rest.
   ‘Of course. Do you fancy getting a takeaway too? I’m famished. I mean, only if you want the company,’ Jonathan said, and I was pretty sure he turned a bit red as he suggested this.
   ‘That would be great. I’m so glad he’s home,’ she replied, looking down at me.
   ‘Well, one of his homes anyway,’ Jonathan replied and they both laughed. My heart lifted as I heard in their voices something I often felt in mine; love. They might not know it yet but I did. I was a very clever cat.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_037.jpg]
   Epilogue
   I was visiting Tiger. She was trying to exercise more with me, having acknowledged that she needed to lose some weight. She said that when I’d been away she had eaten and not moved much, pining for me, which was nice, although I think she was just being a bit lazy as she was prone to.
   Many months had passed sincethe incident, such as it had now become known. I hadn’t realised that although my plan was dangerous and had nearly caused my death – I wasn’t quite aware of how near death I’d been – the outcome had been better than I could ever have envisaged. But, as the seasons passed, my strength had returned. It was now summer again. The sun was out, the evenings light and warm. I had survived it all; the attack by Joe, and the cold winter that followed, which made me loath to go out. I had eventually forced myself to set foot outside the front door, returning to my old life of visiting all the houses; Jonathan’s, the flats at number 22, and of course, Claire’s. After my recovery I had returned to being a doorstep cat but with a difference, because everything was different. And now things had changed more than ever.
   Franceska and Thomasz and the boys had moved and left Edgar Road. Luckily they had only gone round the corner though, and lived in a bigger flat. I didn’t visit often, as it was quite a walk, but they came to Polly and Matt’s or Jonathan and Claire’s all the time. It seemed that I had brought about a friendship for all of my families, which made me so happy; they liked each other, just as I had wanted.
   Thomasz had a partnership in his restaurant and was doing very well. Aleksy loved his school and his English was now better than his parents’. Thomasz the boy was talking more and almost sounding English. Franceska worked in a shop and she often brought gifts of fish. She said she was less and less homesick now.
   Polly was better and enjoying being a mum. She had a growing stomach, which they told me meant there was another baby coming, another playmate for me! She, Matt and Henry were very happy. Henry was walking now and pulled my tail a lot, but in a fun, not mean way, so I tried not to mind too much. The biggest change was that they lived in a new house now, which happened to be right opposite Jonathan’s. They were so much closer and the house they lived in wasn’t as big as Jonathan’s, but it was a lovely family home.
   Claire and I both lived full time in 46 Edgar Road, with Jonathan. My idea to get them together had worked (although it took a while). It was the best plan ever, although they seemed to do it all by themselves, needing only a little help from me. They were so happy together, although Jonathan could still be grumpy and Claire would tease him. She wasn’t scared of him and he treated her – and me – like royalty. Tasha visited all the time and they had other friends over, as well as Franceska’s family and Polly and Matt. The house was busy and full, the way I had always thought it should be.
   Claire and Jonathan called me their miracle cat because apparently I had done so much. I was growing quite an ego; the way they talked, you would think I had saved the world, not just helped four families. But apparently I had, and my life was all the better and richer for it.
   As we settled into a routine which worked for us all, I had much to be thankful for: my friendships, my family, the love that surrounded me. My days of wandering the streets in fear, dodging cars and dogs and feral cats, scrabbling for food and shelter, were so far behind me that sometimes it felt as if that life had happened to another cat. But I knew it had happened to me, because my past was always with me. The tears and the fear, and the way my families had needed me, had become a part of me. I would never forget Joe and what he had done to me because, although it had cost me a lot, it had given me so much more. I would never forget when Aleksy came back from school with a certificate because he had written about his best friend, which was me. I would never forget Franceska saying that being in England had been so hard at first but that I had made it easier. I would never forget Claire saying I had saved her, and Polly saying the same. I would never forget that Jonathan teased me for turning him into a cat lover and telling Claire that I had saved him from the awful Philippa. I would never forget my long journey here, and I just hoped that the hard bit of it was now over and my relaxation could begin.
   Because I was still happiest being a lap cat, and I now had the perfect number of laps to sit on. At night, I would sometimes go out and look at the stars. I would look at the sky and hope that Agnes and Margaret were up there somewhere, winking at me, because although I had apparently done a lot of good things since I lost them, I had only done it because of the love and lessons they had taught me. And I was a better cat for them and for everything I’d been through. And that, I had learnt, was how life worked.
   2. A CAT CALLED ALFIE
   Chapter One
   I yawned and stretched, blinking into the dark night. The sky was clear, stars sprinkled sparsely above me, and the moon lit us up in a spotlight.
   ‘I’d better go home, Tiger,’ I reluctantly said. ‘They might be worrying.’ It wasn’t often that I stayed out so late, but Tiger and I had been having fun with some of the neighbourhood cats and I’d lost track of time.
   ‘OK, Alfie, I’ll walk you home.’ Although Tiger, my best friend, was a girl cat, she was pretty tough and definitely scarier than I was. And, after all I had been through, I quite liked having her as my bodyguard. Even as we strolled down Edgar Road together, passing dark houses, lit street lamps, and parked cars, I jumped occasionally at my shadow. I was a bit nervous in the dark; past memories were conjured up, things I would rather forget, but Tiger was striding protectively next to me so I tried to remember that I was safe now.
   ‘Look, Tiger,’ I exclaimed, fear forgotten, as we stopped near the house next door to mine; number 48 Edgar Road.
   ‘My goodness, it looks as if someone is moving in,’ she replied.
   ‘At this time of night!’ I exclaimed. This was incredibly strange — not only did I know that humans normally slept at night but they also normally moved house during the day.
   We snuck into the front garden and hid behind a bush, a place we knew well, as we excitedly watched events unfold.
   Tiger and I had staked out this house on many an occasion. In fact we knew it almost as well as we knew our own.
   A few months ago the current owners had moved out and a‘To Let’ sign had gone up. I’d persuaded Tiger to join me to check out the progress of the house on many occasions; even after all this time, I couldn’t resist the lure of an empty home. A few years ago, having found myself homeless, I was taught by a wise cat that empty houses heralded newpeople, and therefore potential families for cats in need. Like a moth to a flame, they called me to them. Although I now had loving families, and I certainly wasn’t a cat in need, I still found myself drawn to them.
   There was a large white van parked outside and two men were unloading it. Both men were wearing jeans and jumpers; one wore a woolly hat, the other had very little hair. They were both tall; one was slim, the other a bit more rotund. They were largely silent as they carried large boxes from the van and into the house.
   I purred with excitement.
   ‘New owners! I can’t wait to meet them,’ I said to Tiger.
   ‘Oh, Alfie, you’re such a doorstep cat. When it comes to new families, you just can’t help yourself can you?’ Tiger asked. I shook my head. ‘You don’t think it’s odd?’ she added.
   ‘Well yes a bit,’ I replied.
   ‘Who moves stuff into a house in the middle of the night?’
   She was right, I thought, as I pondered why on earth they would choose the dead of night to move their belongings in?
   When I first arrived at Edgar Road, over three years ago now, I had been taught that the signs they put up outside houses signalled that new people were moving in. I had arrived in the street homeless, abandoned after my owner passed away. Scared, lonely and with nowhere to go, I had used those signs to find the four houses that would soon become my new homes.
   Without realizing it, I had become a doorstep cat; a cat who visits or lives in multiple houses. With so many homes, I could ensure that I was always going to be fed and loved. Finding myself totally alone in the world, without an owner, had broken my heart and I knew I could never face that again.
   I had started with four new homes in Edgar Road, but they had dwindled to two after families had moved. So although I was pretty secure, I found old habits hard to break, and couldn’t help investigating empty houses. You never knew what was around the corner.
   ‘It’s a fairly big house,’ Tiger pointed out. ‘Which probably means a whole family will move in.’ Tiger lived only a few doors down from me but her house was smaller. My main family, Jonathan and Claire, were now married after I had brought them together, and lived in Jonathan’s large house, which cried out for a family. It was too big for just two people and a cat; it badly needed children running around it. They both wanted one, or maybe more than one, but I was their spoilt baby for now. Not something you would ever hear me complain about.
   ‘I hope there’ll be a big family moving in, with some nice children. But I hope they don’t have a cat.’
   ‘Why?’
   ‘Well, I was hoping that this new family might need a doorstep cat.’
   Tiger lay down in the bush, looking pensive.
   ‘You’ve got Jonathan and Claire, and Polly and Matt now. Don’t you think that it’s time to accept that you have families who love you and you don’t need to look for any more homes?’ Tiger yawned, a long lazy yawn; lecturing me always seemed to take it out of her.
   I knew in my little heart that what she was saying was true, but knowing something and feeling it were two completely different things.
   We watched as the men took the last of the boxes out of the van, and then shut the door. They took them into the house, emerging again a few minutes later.
   ‘I really don’t know how to thank you,’ the slim man said. He looked sad. I had crept closer, so I could hear more clearly.
   ‘Hey, don’t worry about it. That’s what family’s for,’ the other one replied, patting him on the back.
   ‘I know but, well, where we are now, what’s happened, I just don’t know how to—’ His voice broke with emotion; my eyes widened.
   ‘That’s it then?’ The other man changed the subject.
   ‘Yup. That’s pretty much everything we own, done now.’ He laughed bitterly.
   ‘Come on, little brother, it’ll be fine,’ the first man said.
   ‘I wish I could believe you,’ he replied, as they got into the van and drove off.
   ‘Wow, now I am definitely intrigued,’ I mused, as we watched them go.
   ‘Alfie, I really think it’s time to give up looking for new homes,’ Tiger stated with another yawn. I looked over at her and realized it was definitely time for bed. Tiger might be a young cat like me, but boy did she need her sleep.
   ‘You’re right, I’m sure,’ I agreed, ‘but then, once a doorstep cat always a doorstep cat.’
   Chapter Two
   My house was in darkness as I jumped through the cat flap. I wasn’t surprised, it was late. I lapped up some water, before taking myself off to my cat bed, upstairs on the landing.
   After Claire and Jonathan first got together, I was still splitting my time between their two houses and the other two flats. I took credit for their relationship as I introduced them. It was funny; I had been planning to do so but it actually happened unwittingly. When I was injured and recovering at the vet, Jonathan went looking for me, and Claire realized I was his cat too. They fell in love, being perfect for each other, and were together for six months before Claire and I moved into Jonathan’s house. A year later they got married. It was my first experience of a human wedding. I was even part of the ceremony, which was held in a small church not far from Edgar Road. I was so excited until they put a lead on me — oh the indignity! — but I forgave them because they included me intheir special day, plus they gave me pilchards to eat. Yum. I stayed with my other family, Polly, Matt, Henry and their new baby, Martha, while they went on what they called a ‘honeymoon’, but now I lived with Jonathan and Claire almost full time.
   As I lay in my bed, thinking about the new family, I was unable to figure out why on earth anyone would move boxes in the middle of the night. I also couldn’t stop thinking about how upset the man seemed. He definitely sounded like a human in need from my experience; someone who could clearly do with my help. I was still fretting over it as I fell asleep.
   I woke the following morning later than usual. I had a good long stretch, and then made my way to Claire and Jonathan’s room where they were still asleep. It was the weekend, so they didn’t have to get up early. However, I was hungry and it was definitely past my usual breakfast time. Luckily they hadn’t fully shut the bedroom door so I pushed it open.
   I jumped up onto the bed, climbed onto Claire’s chest and miaowed loudly.
   ‘Arggh, Alfie,’ Claire started as she sat up and found me sitting on her. ‘Why do you always sit on me and not him?’ she asked, gesturing to Jonathan who was clearly pretending to still be asleep.
   I miaowed to say that I sat on her because Jonathan could be really grumpy in the morning; Claire was a better bet.
   ‘I get it,’ she continued. ‘It’s breakfast time.’ She got up and pulled her dressing gown off the chair next to the bed and put it on.
   ‘And while you’re up, coffee would be great,’ Jonathan said, still refusing to open both eyes. I stood over him on the bed, tickling his cheek with my tail until he was forced to open his eyes and sit up. ‘Get off me, Alfie, I can’t bear it,’ he said, stroking me, but at the same time gently pushing me away.
   ‘Good one, Alfie,’ Claire said, giggling. She picked me up, tucked me under one arm and carried me downstairs with her.
   ‘Claire, Claire.’ Jonathan appeared, breathless some time later. ‘Have you seen my trainers?’ he asked, stopping to bend down to stroke me. I had finished my breakfast and licked myself clean by the time he appeared.
   ‘In the cupboard under the stairs, where we keep all the shoes,’ she replied with a tut. Claire was incredibly tidy; the house was always immaculate, yet still Jonathan couldn’t seem to find anything. Claire said it was a ‘man thing’, although that certainly didn’t apply to me. Luckily I was a very clean and tidy cat who appreciated order, so we all lived well together.
   ‘I’ll have another look, you know how hopeless I am.’ He kissed her. It was one of those long kisses you see in films, and I felt as if I was intruding a bit as I covered my eyes with my paws. As I uncovered them, he pinched her bottom and went off again to search for the elusive trainers. Claire’s face was pink with happiness and every time I saw her like that I remembered why I had wanted them to be together in the first place. It wasn’t perfect — I had learnt that perfect relationships rarely existed, either for cats or humans — but Jonathan and Claire made each other happy nearly all the time and we had a sunny, loving home. Tiger was right, I was lucky with the life I had and sometimes I really needed to remember that.
   ‘Found them!’ Jonathan came back into the kitchen looking triumphant, brandishing his trainers. ‘Right, darling, I’ll go to the gym then we can go out for lunch when I get back?’
   ‘Lovely, and I’ll put my feet up until you get back,’ she said, hugging him. ‘By the way, you do know what today is, don’t you?’
   ‘Um, Saturday?’ Jonathan replied.
   ‘You know what I mean,’ Claire said in a very quiet voice. Not that she needed to whisper as I had no idea what that meant.
   ‘I hadn’t forgotten, my love.’ He smiled and kissed her cheek. ‘I’ll see you later.’ I noticed him wink before he left.
   Humans, I often say, are funny creatures. I love them very much and they take good care of me, but I don’t suppose I will ever fully figure them out. Take Jonathan and his trainers. He knows where they’re kept but he opens the cupboard, doesn’t see them, asks Claire, and then finds them where he looked in the first place. Jonathan does it with everything and for some reason Claire seems to findit funny and endearing, whereas I think it’s annoying. It’s not like he’s stupid but he definitely acts as if he is sometimes.
   And Claire, she whispers a lot in front of me, although she doesn’t know just how much I actually understand. Which is quite a lot. I’m pretty sure when she speaks softly like that, it’s because they are trying to have a baby. I know what a baby is; I’ve had experience with Henry and Martha who live down the road. Plus, we cats quite like babies — theyare small and warm and a bit like us in some ways.
   But they haven’t got pregnant yet. I know it makes Claire upset sometimes and I worry because she was sad a lot of the time when I first knew her and although she seems happy life is unpredictable, and things can change in the flick of a switch.
   A little while after Jonathan had left, the doorbell rang out and I rushed to the front door with Claire. She opened it to find Polly, from my other home, standing on the doorstep with a beautiful smile on her face. Claire and Polly were close friends now, and I’d brought them together too.
   ‘Hi.’ Claire beamed back at her. I purred and went to greet Polly. When I first met her she never smiled, but now she did all the time. She was so beautiful that she lit up everyone with her smile, even me. All my humans were attractive in their own ways but Polly was stunning. Everyone agreed but Polly laughed it off and was probably the least vain person I knew — she was certainly less concerned with her appearance than I was with mine.
   ‘Hope you don’t mind me popping in but you said that Jon was going to the gym. Matt’s just taken the kids to the park so I’ve managed to escape.’
   ‘Don’t be silly, of course I don’t mind, come in.’ Claire stood aside.
   ‘Hi, Alfie.’ Polly bent down to pet me. She and I were good friends now; we had come a long way since we first met.
   Claire made a pot of coffee and as they settled round the kitchen table, I manoeuvred myself to sit at Polly’s feet, casually brushing my tail against her legs.
   ‘I’m not sure I should be drinking coffee,’ Claire said, taking a sip.
   ‘Are you?’ Polly asked.
   ‘No, I’m not pregnant but I am ovulating.’
   ‘Take my advice, hon, just try to relax. I was drinking more than just coffee when I got pregnant with both of mine. Don’t put pressure on it, don’t make it too much of a thing.’ Polly looked concerned, so I rubbed against her legs.
   ‘I try to tell myself that. But you know what I’m like, I get overwrought; I worry about everything. I’m worried that since we’ve decided to have a baby it’ll consume me until it happens.’ Claire looked pensive. I also felt bothered about it; she was an anxious person and that’s why my getting her and Jonathan together had been a genius move on my part. Jonathan was a complex man — much like myself in many ways — but he treated Claire well. He was old fashioned in some respects and took care of her, at the same time letting her take care of the home, which she seemed to like. I didn’t fully understand it, being a cat, but I was learning. Jonathan was like a strong man who kept Claire from being too nervous and sad and she felt safe with him. He could be grumpy but he had a heart of gold and he was loyal to her. Loyalty is so important, I had discovered.
   ‘And that’s totally normal, although I really think you need to not let it take over. I mean look at all those unwanted pregnancies. I’m sure it’s because the girls don’t think about babies that they get knocked up.’ Polly laughed.
   ‘I can’t stop myself now, though.’ Claire smiled. ‘Although you’re right, I do need to relax.’ Claire went to the cupboard and pulled out a biscuit tin that she put on the table.
   ‘So what does Jonathan think?’ Polly asked, as she munched on a biscuit.
   ‘He thinks we should just enjoy trying and make the most of it, typical man.’ Claire smiled.
   ‘Then, try to do that. He’s right.’
   ‘I know, but unlike me Jon is all huff and puff; he’s got a short temper but then he’s able to let things go easily, he doesn’t stew on things thank goodness. I think he’ll make a good dad.’
   Polly reached over and gave Claire’s hand a squeeze.
   ‘You’ll both make great parents, better than me anyway,’ she said with a sad smile.
   ‘Come on, Pol, when are you going to forgive yourself?’ Claire asked.
   When I first met Polly she was in a bad way. It was discovered that she had postnatal depression which means you are sad after having a baby, and in a way I was responsible for her getting help. Henry was a happy, healthy baby and now he was a very contented little boy but it took a while before Polly got better. When she had baby Martha just over a year ago, she had been terrified that she would feel that way again, but thankfully she didn’t. They are now a happy family and I love having Henry and Martha as my playmates.
   ‘I don’t think I ever will. I know, deep down, it wasn’t my fault, but because everything was so good with Martha I guess I’ll always feel guilty about Henry. Anyway, that’s just something that I’ll have to accept; but you don’t need to worry about that.’ Polly looked pensive.
   ‘No, I am going to have enough trouble worrying about not getting pregnant.’ Claire paused. ‘My friend Tasha is having acupuncture.’
   ‘Ouch.’
   ‘Well she swears it doesn’t hurt. She and her boyfriend have been trying a while, and I’m kind of toying with giving it a go. It’s just Jon worries that the more I do to get pregnant the more of a state I’ll get into, like a vicious circle.’
   ‘I agree, and I couldn’t do it, I hate needles.’ Polly shuddered.
   Claire poured more coffee and as I slid into a half-dozing state, they chatted about work and the house, the topic of babies safely abandoned.
   ‘Anyway, lovely, I better go, and make them all some lunch,’ Polly said as they finished their drinks. ‘But remember Franceska and the boys are coming over tomorrow. They want to see Alfie.’
   I opened my eyes and miaowed loudly to say I wanted to see them too.
   ‘I swear that cat understands everything we say,’ Claire said, picking me up so we could both see Polly to the door.
   Goodness, I loved my humans but they weren’t always very clever. Of course I could. I understood nearly everything anyway.
   Chapter Three
   Despite Tiger’s best efforts, I was loath to go for our usual morning constitutional in case I missed a minute with Aleksy and little Tomasz. Aleksy was my first child friend ever; I met him when he moved to Edgar Road, and he and I had an unshakable bond as a result. Although I was fond of his younger brother, Tomasz — who confusingly had the same name as his dad — and of course Henry and Martha, Aleksy was my best child friend.
   ‘We can watch the empty house,’ I suggested to Tiger. It was close enough to Polly’s for me to keep an eye on both, and watch for the arrival of Aleksy. Since the activity on Friday night there had been nothing more happening, which made the empty house even more mysterious. Still no one seemed to live there.
   ‘Alfie, nothing is happening. I might go and see what the other cats on the street are doing,’ Tiger said huffily. I looked at her, with my most charming expression, but she wouldn’t look at me.
   ‘Women’, I thought to myself, an expression I had learnt from Jonathan.
   ‘OK, but we can play later,’ I suggested, still trying to placate her, but she stalked off. I knew she would sulk for a while but then she’d forget to be angry. Tiger didn’t hold grudges; that was why we remained good friends, but she could be temperamental. I had heard Jonathan saying thatmost women were, and Claire always shouted at him when he said that, so I am pretty sure he is right.
   I padded around the front garden of the empty house on my own. The people who lived there previously were a house share; five young professionals— that was how Claire described them. Although they were nice enough they were barely there and had no interest in cats, so I was unfamiliar with the house.
   There was no sign of anyone and, apart from the boxes and furniture, the house was still puzzlingly empty. I still hadn’t been able to figure out why they would have moved their stuff in, in the middle of the night, and not themselves. It made no sense. A mystery. I jumped up onto a low windowsill of a front room to make sure, but nothing had changed. As I jumped down I let my mind wander again, thinking about who might soon be living there. I imagined a lovely family, older children maybe, as I didn’t have any of them in my life. Hopefully they would be fish-lovers too (eating not keeping), so I would get plenty of treats. And I prayed that there would be absolutely, definitely no dogs.
   I smiled to myself as I left the front garden and walked up the road to Polly’s house. When I first met Polly and Matt they lived in a flat but now they had a house. It was a lovely, cosy home. Polly had put a lot of work into the decor, and there were lots of pictures, photos and vibrant cushions in the living room. It made it very comfortable when I visited, and they even had a cat bed for me. After all, it was my second home.
   I stood at the front door. I could have gone around the back to where they had put in a cat flap, but I wanted to greet Aleksy the minute he arrived. My little legs were almost shaking with excitement as I waited. The weather wasn’t too bad; it was warmish and there were glimpses of sun for me to bask in. I also spent a bit of time smelling the flowers that Polly had planted, lots of red, yellow and orange coloured buds. I was careful not to get too close; last year Tiger put her nose into a flower and had been stung by abee. She had to go to the vet and was in a lot of pain, and then had to have a nasty injection. There was no way I wanted that to happen to me. After carefully sniffing from a safe distance, I lay down in a patch of sunlight, to sunbathe.
   ‘Alfie,’ a familiar voice said a little while later. I opened my eyes. Aleksy was standing over me, smiling. He looked such a big boy now — he’d recently had his seventh birthday — in his jeans and sweatshirt. He had been in England for three years and although I still knew little about Poland where they had come from, he seemed to be becoming more and more English every time I saw him.
   I stood up and purred in greeting. Aleksy picked me up and I nestled into his neck. Little Tomasz stroked me and I purred at him to let him know how pleased I was to see him as well.
   ‘Right, boys, let’s go in, including you, Alfie,’ Franceska, the boys’ mum said, leaning down to stroke me. Franceska was a lovely calm lady and had worked very hard to help her family settle in England. Although she had served in a shop for a while, she now worked with her husband, big Tomasz, in his restaurant when her boys were at school. I had never been there, it was quite far from Edgar Road for a cat to venture, but I had heard from my families that it was pretty good, popular and they were doing well. I actually wished I could go and visit them, just to see where they lived. The family now lived in a flat over the restaurant and I missed them. When they lived on Edgar Road, I used to see Aleksy almost every day and now we only saw each other once a week.
   We were all in Polly’s warm front room. Martha was holding onto the dark blue sofa — she was learning to walk. I had learnt that whilst cats walk from birth, it takes humans longer, which is another thing that makes me wonder why they say that humans are cleverer than cats. I can think of many reasons why it’s the other way round, and not just the walking thing.
   Henry and Tomasz immediately started playing with Henry’s train set. Tomasz was older than Henry but they played together well. I know Aleksy often said that he was too big to play with the younger boys but I could sometimes tell that he wished he could join in. Instead he played with me. He always kept toys for me and brought them over when he came.He took them out of his backpack now and although I often felt such playing was a bit beneath me, at six cat years, I indulged him and let him dangle a fake mouse, roll a ball and I even chased the ribbons and bells. It amused Martha anyway, who was trying to balance and grab my tail at the same time. I dodged easily, but knew if she kept trying it wouldn’t end well for her.
   When Polly and Franceska returned from the kitchen, they had a tray with hot drinks for the grown-ups, squash for the children and a plate of biscuits. Immediately the boys descended on the biscuits.
   ‘Only one each,’ Franceska said, but I saw Aleksy take two with a grin.
   Polly picked up Martha to give her a bottle of milk and when I miaowed, to say that I felt left out, Polly grinned.
   ‘Frankie, can you get Alfie some milk? He obviously wants a snack too.’ I followed Franceska to the kitchen and lapped up the milk when it was presented to me. Aleksy followed me in and we found ourselves alone. The kitchen had a small round table and four chairs on one side, in the dining area, and was fitted with grey wooden cupboards on the other. I don’t know much about interior design being a cat and only having a basket to call my own, but Polly definitely had a flair, because her home looked a bit like she did, as if it came from one of those glossy magazines that Claire liked toread. In fact, Claire was talking about getting her to help redecorate our house.
   ‘I miss you, Alfie,’ Aleksy said as I finished my milk. I looked at him, as I cleaned myself up, trying to read his eyes and my heart sank. I could see it, sadness in his little face, and it caused me physical pain. I was always greatly affected by the emotions of my humans but the children, especially Aleksy, were the worst. I rubbed myself against his legs to tell him I missed him too. ‘Sometimes I think we should still live here when I could see you every day,’ he said. I purred in concurrence.
   ‘Aleksy.’ Tomasz ran into the kitchen like the whirlwind he was. Aleksy was the sensitive child whereas little Tomasz was more physical.
   ‘What, Tommy?’ Aleksy asked.
   ‘Claire is here and she bought us a present.’ Tomasz shook with excitement and Aleksy’s eyes lit up as he ran into the living room.
   Whatever was bothering Aleksy would obviously have to wait.
   ‘Alfie.’ Claire scooped me up. ‘I was looking for you. I swear this cat is still as elusive as ever, I sometimes wonder if he’s found other homes.’
   ‘Surely not?’ Franceska said.
   ‘Well, he’s always out and about. Who knows? He stays with us most nights but …’
   ‘Well he visits us most days,’ Polly pointed out.
   I miaowed loudly. I might be curious about the residents moving into the new house, but I knew who my families were.
   As I snuggled on Franceska’s lap I surveyed the living room with a swelling heart. The boys were all playing a game that Claire had bought them. Martha had fallen asleep, curled up beside Polly on the sofa, her chubby legs sticking out from a blanket. Claire was animated, Franceska stroked me as she listened and chatted, and Polly was smiling. I was such a lucky cat, I really was. My last thought, as like Martha, I took my nap, was how happy I felt to see love, happiness and my families in that room.
   Chapter Four
   I was washing myself in the kitchen after breakfast when the cat flap clanged and Tiger breathlessly appeared. We often went into each other’s homes, but we had to be careful that our owners didn’t catch us as they could be a bit mean to uninvited cats. But Tiger knew that Jonathan and Claire were at work on a weekday, so she was safe.
   ‘What are you doing?’ Tiger asked. She sounded excited.
   ‘I was about to go to Polly’s. She normally takes a walk to the park, so I thought I might tag along.’
   ‘Well, you might want to come with me instead.’ She made it sound like a command rather than an invitation.
   I followed her out. She jumped onto the fence in the back garden, then stopped and looked at me.
   ‘Are you OK to jump today?’ I looked back at her. My leg was feeling fine today, and I told Tiger so as I followed her.
   I had been injured a couple of years ago, when Claire’s ex-boyfriend had attacked me. Although my back leg was all right now, some days it hurt more than others, and I knew better than to jump too much in general. It reminded me of what I had been through; like a deep-rooted scar. I’d been lucky to survive but I didn’t want to think about that right now.
   More important things were a-paw.
   I still didn’t know what was going on until Tiger led me into the back garden of number 48, to the patio doors where we could see into the house. We were staring at a kitchen/dining room like Jonathan and Claire’s. And today, we could see that the boxes had been unpacked.
   ‘I didn’t see any people yesterday, did they come this morning?’ I asked.
   ‘No, which is why I had to come and find you. I got up really early, and when I walked past the front of the house I saw that the living room boxes had been unpacked. I checked around before coming to see you but there’s no sign of any humans.’
   Tiger used to do very little with her time before we became friends. Previously, I had often accused her of being a lazy cat. She had middle-aged owners who indulged her, and who didn’t have children so she was spoilt and liked her home comforts. Not that I could blame her for that, as I too used to be a lap cat when I lived with my first owner. However, my good influence was clearly rubbing off on her and since we’d been friends, she had become a bit more adventurous.
   ‘Let’s see if we can find the others and see if they know anything,’ I suggested. So we ran to the end of the street where we found some of our friends hanging out.
   When I was attacked by Claire’s ex-boyfriend Joe, Tiger had told all the other cats how I had provoked Joe in order to save Claire from a relationship with him; a man who turned out to be a horrible bully. My plan worked a treat, despite the fact I nearly died, but after I recovered I found myself a bit of a hero among the local cats. Even Tom, who could be quite mean, showed me a grudging respect and no longer tried to fight me. I finally had cat friends who were ready to look out for me, after such a long time of feeling alone in the world.
   Elvis, Nellie and Rocky all greeted us warmly.
   ‘Do you know anything about number forty-eight?’ I asked.
   ‘I do, actually,’ Nellie announced sounding smug.
   ‘Well what is it?’ I asked.
   ‘Last night it was very late, there were no lights on in any of the houses, only the street lamps. Anyway I was taking a bit of a stroll with Ronnie.’ Ronnie was another of our cat friends, but Ronnie was almost completely nocturnal and I never saw her during the day.
   ‘Go on,’ I encouraged. The problem with Nellie was that she liked a drama.
   ‘I’m getting to it. Anyway, we were strolling, but a car pulled up, as I said it was the middle of the night.’
   ‘Get on with it.’ Tiger scowled.
   ‘OK, keep your fur on. Anyway, so the car pulled up and two men got out. I guess they were unpacking but after a couple of hours, they got back in the car and left.’
   ‘Right, so what did the men look like?’ I asked.
   ‘Just two typical humans, one thin with very little hair whilst the other was fatter with grey-ish hair but that’s all I can tell you.’ It sounded like the men from the other night.
   ‘So as far as we know no one’s moved in there yet?’
   ‘Nope, they left. But it means someone will soon.’
   ‘Yeah thanks, Nellie, we got that,’ Tiger finished, giving Nellie a withering look.
   ‘You could always ask, you know,him,’ Elvis suggested. We all balked at the idea; although Elvis hadn’t mentioned his name we all knew which cat he was referring to. And this cat was not one of our friends.
   ‘Oh God, you could but really do you want to?’ Rocky asked.
   ‘It’s a last resort,’ I replied.
   ‘Very last resort,’ Tiger concurred. We all shuddered.
   As if summoned by magic, the cat in question rounded the corner and made his way towards us. We all grouped together as Salmon approached. He was an unpleasant cat who lived with his owners, Vic and Heather Goodwin, Edgar Road’s busybodies. Salmon was as nosey as his owners and also very arrogant, and they lived almost opposite the empty house. He was a fat brown cat with mean eyes; none of us cats liked him and always tried to avoid him if we could. He was known for being a bit of a bully.
   ‘What are you doing?’ Salmon asked, narrowing his eyes at us.
   ‘We were just having a chat,’ Tiger replied, staring at him. She was the least afraid of Salmon. Nellie was almost hiding behind Elvis and Rocky looked as if he wanted to run away. Even I felt a bit uneasy as Salmon bared his sharp teeth.
   ‘We were talking about the new people at number forty-eight,’ I explained, trying to feel in control.
   ‘Oh well, that’s boring,’ Salmon said nastily.
   ‘Only because you don’t know anything,’ Tiger spat back. I admired her bullishness at times.
   ‘If I did, I wouldn’t tell you,’ Salmon huffed then, hissing nastily at us, he stalked off.
   ‘I hate that cat,’ Tiger said. We all silently agreed as we spent the afternoon chasing birds, in order to forget the unpleasantness.
   I met Jonathan at the front door as I made it home. I was pleased my timing was so good, as I was pretty hungry after my day’s activities. I didn’t go into being a doorstep cat to be greedily eating all the time, but at the same time I did enjoy my food. What cat didn’t?
   ‘Hi, mate,’ Jonathan said, and I rubbed against his suit trousers, which I knew used to annoy him — apparently I left hair behind — but he was more tolerant with me these days. It had only taken three years. ‘Coming in for dinner? I’ve got you some fresh sardines from the deli, but don’t tell Claire. Luckily she’s at her book club, so it’s boys’ night in.’
   I miaowed as I followed him into the house. This was a good result. A perfect result in actual fact.
   Jonathan tipped my dinner into a bowl for me and then he went upstairs to take a shower. While Claire favoured packets of‘cat’ food, Jonathan always gave me a finer dining experience. They disagreed about it but on this issue neither of them would budge. I obviously preferred it when Jonathan fed me but I still loved Claire so I tried to be grateful at the ready meals she provided for me. I didn’t want to look as though I expected fine dining but I certainly wasn’t going to turn it down.
   When he came back downstairs, Jonathan was wearing his casual clothes— a T-shirt and jogging bottoms. He grabbed a beer out of the fridge and went into the living room flicking the TV on as he sank down onto the sofa. Jonathan and Claire were so different; he couldn’t be in the living room, without the TV being on, whereas Claire would often sit with a book rather than watch the square screen. I followed him in, licking myself clean after my delicious meal. Whilst Jonathan was flicking the TV channels, the doorbell chimed. As Jonathan went to open the door, I followed and was delighted to see Matt on the doorstep holding a pack of beers. Matt was Polly’shusband, a tall, quite handsome and very kind man. He and Jonathan had become good friends since my incident and the four of them often spent time together. I was often referred to as Cupid cat, as well as a cat who created friendships. It was a very good thing.
   ‘Free pass?’ Jonathan asked him, his voice slightly teasing.
   ‘Polly’s putting the children to bed, so I thought I’d see if you fancied a beer? And of course, the football’s on in a bit.’
   ‘Excellent. Come in.’
   As Matt petted me I congratulated myself on having done good work in bringing friendships together, and maybe when the family moved into number 48, they could become part of our little world too.
   I often hear people talking about love, family, relationships and friendships and when you see them working in real life you realize how much of human life hinges on other people. It’s not always a good thing though. People can make others happy but they can also make them sad. It is a very complicated concept to unravel. It’s different for cats of course, and sometimes people say cats are very self-sufficient, although most of us like being taken care of too.
   ‘So how’s work?’ Jonathan asked Matt.
   ‘Pretty good, busy but I’m working from home a bit more so I can help Pol out. What about you?’
   ‘You know I was so sceptical when I got my job. I thought the company was a bit rubbish, I thought it was beneath me. But it turns out to be the best move I ever made. Once I got over myself and threw myself into it, it’s all started going really well.’
   ‘Finally, it seems that life is good. So let’s drink to that.’ They clinked beer bottles. ‘Oh and by the way, mate, can you and Claire babysit for us on Saturday? I want to surprise Pol with a nice meal out.’
   ‘Sure, I don’t think we’ve got plans and anyway, it’s good practice.’
   ‘She’s not is she?’
   ‘No, well I don’t think so, not yet, but hopefully soon.’ Jonathan sounded unperturbed, unlike Claire, as he discussed the wanted pregnancy.
   Our cosy boys’ night was soon interrupted by the doorbell again. Jonathan groaned as he got up, and I followed him to the front door. He opened the door, coming face-to-face with Heather and Vic Goodwin, who stood smiling — or rather, grimacing — at him from the doorstep.
   ‘Jonathan, is Claire here?’ Vic asked. I looked behind Vic and Heather and saw that Salmon was with them, standing atmy front gate. He aggressively flicked his tail up, I narrowed my eyes but decided to ignore him. Irritating cat. Mind you, irritating owners. They were older than my owners, both with grey hair. They lived in a smaller house, a bit like Matt and Polly’s, on the opposite side of the road to us. They always dressed in a similar way, and today they were both wearing navy blue jumpers with white shirt collars poking out from underneath. Vic was wearing corduroy trousers, Heather a corduroy skirt. I wondered if they were a certain species of humans — none of the couples I knew wore matching clothes.
   ‘Um no, she’s at her book club,’ Jonathan mumbled nervously, as I saw him move forward to block the door. I knew he didn’t want to let them in but I also knew he shouldn’t underestimate Vic and Heather.
   ‘Not to worry, we’ve got you.’ Heather grinned and before I knew it, they had managed to get themselves inside the house. My fur stood on end. As they walked into the living room, Jonathan shut the door, looking confused. I stayed at Jonathan’s feet as we followed them in.
   ‘Ah, Matt, you’re here,’ Vic said. ‘Good, good. Saves us visiting your house.’
   ‘Hello.’ Matt looked at Jonathan with panic in his eyes.
   ‘We are—’ Heather paused, sitting down on the sofa. I cowered under a chair and put my paws over my eyes. This wasn’t good. She continued, ‘Here on Neighbourhood Watch business, of course.’
   ‘Of course.’ Jonathan and Matt exchanged another glance. Jonathan was standing up, Matt was on the chair in the corner and Vic and Heather sat together on the sofa.
   ‘So what can we do for you?’ Jonathan asked, politely.
   ‘Well, as you know there’s been a few changes in the street lately. And now number forty-eight has been let we thought it would be a good time to strategize,’ Vic started. I pricked my ears up at the mention of the new house.
   ‘Right, strategize how?’ Matt asked.
   ‘Well, as you know, dear, Edgar Road has become quite a community and we want to keep it that way. So we thought that when the new people come into number forty-eight we should hold a meeting, explain to them that it’s a community here and how we all look out for each other,’ Heather explained.
   ‘Sort of a welcome party?’ Matt asked, eyebrow raised.
   ‘Exactly, Matt, exactly,’ Vic concurred. ‘Start as we mean to go on.’
   ‘I didn’t get a welcome party,’ Jonathan said grumpily.
   ‘Well you didn’t act suspiciously when you moved in, did you?’ Vic pointed out.
   ‘What are you talking about?’ Matt asked.
   ‘Moving boxes in at night, unpacking at night, it’s not exactly normal behaviour is it?’ Heather smiled, almost in the same way that Salmon does, baring her teeth. I promptly recovered my eyes.
   ‘And, I have a friend who lives in a nearby neighbourhood, and a house in their street was let recently,’ Vic continued. ‘Well about twenty of thoseforeign people moved into the house, and well, we can’t have that here.’
   Jonathan looked shocked, his brows knotted in confusion.
   ‘What on earth are you talking about? What does that have to do with number forty-eight?’ Jonathan asked, sounding horrified.
   ‘The letting agent wouldn’t disclose to us who would be moving in, but so far the new occupants have acted suspiciously so we’ve put two and two together. And this is happening all over London, so we need to be on top of it. You know, as Neighbourhood Watch coordinators and concerned residents.’
   ‘So hang on, we don’t even know who’s moving in, and yet you’re already planning to interrogate them?’ Matt sounded annoyed.
   ‘No, that’s not what we said. But whoever it is, we thought if we invited them to a meeting immediately they would know how our street works. And, we would like them to explain their nocturnal activities. We have a duty to the residents here to ensure our street stays safe,’ Heather explained.
   ‘God, you make it sound like a lynch mob.’ Jonathan looked aghast.
   ‘No, absolutely not, of course we don’t mean that. But anyway, we wanted to inform you and of course we know that you and your good lady wives will attend and offer the neighbourhood your support.’ Vic smiled, but his smile was as sinister as his wife’s and his cat’s.
   ‘It’s just that if there are going to be lots of immigrants moving onto the street we need to show them we won’t be messed with. And if it’s a normal middle-class family we will welcome them,’ Heather explained. ‘So we can count on you?’
   Jonathan and Matt were speechless as I came out from under the chair, and went and sat on the windowsill. Salmon still sat at the gate, and I flicked my tail up at him through the safety of the window. I saw him hiss at me; I smirked, he couldn’t come near me, as I continued to taunt him.
   ‘When is this meeting?’ Matt asked.
   ‘We are going to schedule it when the residents of number forty-eight move in. So you’ll attend I take it?’ Vic said.
   ‘I don’t know—’ Matt began.
   ‘The thing is—’ Jonathan said at the same time.
   ‘Dear boys,’ Heather started, sounding even scarier than normal. ‘I hope that you care enough about this street to come. I would hate to think that you have no interest in where you live, as would the other residents, I’m sure.’
   ‘Absolutely, dear.’ Vic put his arm around Heather. ‘Until now we have thought of you as being very good members of our community. We wouldn’t want to have to revise that opinion.’
   Matt looked terrified as he seemed to shrink back into the chair.
   ‘Of course we’ll be there,’ Jonathan said. Matt shot him a surprised look. ‘To welcome our new neighbours, which is, what I hope that this meeting will be about.’ Jonathan sounded firm and I was proud of him.
   ‘Absolutely,’ Vic said. ‘Right, we have lots of people to visit so we’d best get on. Glad we can count on you.’ In the whole scheme of Heather and Vic, they’d got off lightly.
   ‘Well good, I’ll show you out.’ As Jonathan herded them to the door, he spoke again. ‘You know our good friends, Franceska and Tomasz are from Poland and they lived here for a while. They weren’t trouble makers,’ he said. We all stood at the front door; I took the opportunity to give Salmon one last dirty look.
   ‘Absolutely not. We got lucky with them, but not all foreigners are like that,’ Heather said, seriously. I could hear Matt in the living room choking on his beer.
   ‘They are unbelievable,’ Jonathan said, as he returned to the living room. His face was a bit red, the way it was when he was angry.
   ‘I find them quite amusing. Well apart from the racism of course. You know whenever I walk down the street, I see them over the road, curtains twitching.’
   ‘This will be the lowest crime street ever with those two. Imagine, if they caught you doing anything wrong you’d get talked to death,’ Jonathan laughed. ‘Or they’d make a citizen’s arrest in their matching jumpers.’
   ‘Well, I don’t know if it’s a family or a hundred immigrants but I already feel sorry for the people moving into number forty-eight,’ Matt agreed.
   ‘You’re not wrong there. Right, let’s forget the Goodwins and put on the football.’
   Chapter Five
   Despite developing a new sleeping habit since Claire and Jonathan moved in together, I had adjusted well to it. Before they were together, when they normally slept alone, they often let me in their room but now, they put my basket on the landing and shut their bedroom door. I wasn’t offended; I had since learnt about the human need for privacy when there was more than one of them. And although I didn’t understand why I couldn’t be in their bedroom, I accepted it. However, I knew instinctively when the alarm clock would go off and as soon as it did I would be waiting to scratch at the door. This delighted Claire who declared me incredibly clever, as I never disturbed them even a minute before the alarm roused them. I have often said that if humans had inbuilt clocks as us cats did, then the world would be a far more efficient place.
   Today, I scratched at the door right on cue. It was Jonathan who came to the door first.
   ‘Morning, Alfie,’ he said absently, wearing his navy dressing gown. He made straight for the kitchen and his coffee machine. I had learnt that he was a bit of a nightmare in the mornings before he had a cup of coffee. He pulled out cups and I miaowed hopefully.
   ‘OK, hang on, I’ll get you some more smoked salmon, but don’t tell Claire.’ I purred in agreement.
   ‘What are you doing here?’ I asked, as Tiger appeared in the kitchen just as I was cleaning myself. ‘Claire and Jonathan are getting ready for work, they’ll be down any minute,’ I hissed.
   ‘Quick, Alfie, I have something to show you.’ She looked very pleased with herself; smug even.
   ‘What?’
   ‘Come with me, and you’ll see. I have a present for you, a very special present.’
   ‘Wow,’ I said as I sat outside number 48 with Tiger. We crept into the front garden, to see if we could get a closer look. Lights were on in the house, we could hear footsteps and when we looked through the window furtively, we saw even more boxes had been unpacked. They had finally moved in. And I fleetingly wondered if our nosey neighbours had been right; they had moved in when no one was around to see them. What was that about?
   ‘I told you, Alfie. They weren’t here when I went to bed last night, but when I got up this morning and went for a stroll they were!’ She sounded excited.
   ‘They must have come in the night like the boxes,’ I mused.
   ‘I guess. Anyway, look.’ Tiger led me round the back. We found a bush to hide in, to survey the situation. Through the back patio doors into the kitchen I could see a woman, a bit older than Claire, her hair greying slightly. She was thin and looked harassed as, hair tied back, she was still busily unpacking. After a while she was joined by a man we had seen before; the thin almost bald man. He kissed her and she smiled sadly at him. He was wearing jeans and a shirt and he didn’t look as if he was exactly happy either.
   ‘So there’s two people?’ I asked.
   ‘No, I think there’s more. When I came by this morning, I saw someone younger.’
   ‘I’m surprised Salmon isn’t here, spying.’
   ‘Thank goodness he isn’t. Look!’
   I saw a teenage boy enter the kitchen. He was wearing jeans and a hoody and he looked a bit moody. He sat down at the kitchen table, but didn’t appear to speak. His mother (I guessed), went over to him and planted a kiss on his head but he acted as if he didn’t even notice.
   ‘He doesn’t look very nice,’ I observed.
   ‘He’s a teenager. I think in general they aren’t very nice. Well my owners say they aren’t. Apparently they are mainly what is wrong with this country.’
   ‘Really?’ I hadn’t had much experience of teenagers, so I found this fascinating.
   ‘Yes, they are lazy and slovenly and don’t care about the world. That’s what they say anyway.’
   ‘But you’ve never had a teenager?’ I asked her.
   ‘No, but my family have a couple of friends who have teenage children. They grunt rather than speak and they never say thank you, apparently.’
   ‘Sounds horrible.’
   ‘Yes, but then they grow up and get better, or some of them do.’
   ‘Well that’s something, but I’m already dreading the day that Aleksy becomes one.’
   ‘I know, imagine if he’s just like that boy there.’ We both grimaced.
   As we looked, a very pretty blonde girl walked into the kitchen. We retreated slightly as she came over to the floor length windows we were looking through. She looked older than the surly boy, so perhaps she had outgrown this teenage thing. She was tall, taller than her mum, but shorter than her dad. She had beautiful blue eyes but when I looked properly there was something missing from them; she looked distant as she stood in her new home and I had seen that look before. More than once.
   What was it with Edgar Road?
   After a little while, Tiger got bored and started trying to pull leaves off a bush, but I was mesmerized by the house. People called houses homes but I also thought they were places that contained stories, both happy and sad, and that was what drew me to them.
   ‘Can we go now?’ she asked having resorted to looking at her own paw.
   ‘Not yet,’ I hissed. ‘I just want to see a bit more.’
   ‘Alfie, you and this obsession with humans. Really!’ She rolled her eyes as a leaf came loose and landed on her head.
   ‘It’s more sensible than your obsession with leaves,’ I shot back, staring pointedly at the pile of leaves she’d collected at her feet.
   ‘Is not,’ Tiger replied, looking sulky.
   ‘Anyway, we can go soon, I just want to see if it’s just the four of them. If it is, then it might not be a bad bet. Another house for me to visit. They might like having a cat around, in any case and there’s a nice big kitchen for me to eat in.’
   ‘Oh Alfie, you have enough families who love and take care of you, when will you accept that? And besides, that teenage boy might not like you.’ Tiger looked exasperated from having to repeat herself so much.
   ‘My first owner, Margaret, always used to say this thing, Tiger.’ I paused as I pictured the kind old lady that I had loved with my whole heart. ‘She used to say “We must never rest on our laurels.” Now I don’t exactly know what it means but I think it means that I shouldn’t takeanythingfor granted. I once said I would never do that again. And it wouldn’t hurt you to take a lesson from me.’
   ‘I’m too lazy. If anything happens to my humans I know you’ll sort it out.’ She smiled, and of course she was right. It was the sort of cat I was.
   A noise startled us.
   ‘Oh my, we hadn’t even noticed that,’ Tiger said as a cat flap slowly lifted up from the other back door.
   ‘And bang goes my idea of being their doorstep cat,’ I murmured, disappointment flooding me. We both stood, stock still as we watched a cat emerge.
   ‘Wow,’ I said, unable to contain myself.
   ‘Well,’ Tiger said, instantly lost for words.
   ‘Who are you and what are you doing in my garden?’ an unfriendly voice hissed and I felt myself glued to the spot as I found myself staring at the most beautiful cat I had ever seen in my life.
   Chapter Six
   ‘Who are you?’ the beauty hissed angrily at us. I wanted to move, or speak or something but I was rooted to the spot and struck dumb.
   ‘We,’ Tiger replied, feistily, ‘are your neighbours. I’m Tiger and that’s Alfie and we are here to welcome you to Edgar Road.’
   I glanced sideways at Tiger, she neither looked nor sounded very welcoming.
   ‘Right, well now you’ve welcomed me, you may leave.’ The exquisite creature stood in front of us. I had never seen such soft fur, bluer eyes or a whiter coat. Her face was like a work of art. She was truly gorgeous, although, admittedly, not at all friendly.
   ‘But we … we … we could show you round,’ I stammered, feeling my legs trembling, in an alien sensation.
   ‘Thank you but I think I’ll find my own way round. I don’t care to ask you again, but would you please get out of my garden.’
   ‘No need to be so rude, whitey,’ Tiger hissed. ‘We were trying to be friends, but I can see we’re wasting our time.’
   ‘Yes you are,’ the white cat replied, turning her beautiful back on us and heading back into her house.
   ‘Well, I’ve never met such a rude cat,’ Tiger said as we made to leave.
   ‘I’ve never met a more beautiful one,’ I sighed, stretching my legs out, to try to regain my composure. I had to admit I felt flummoxed. On the one hand, my original idea to become their doorstep cat had been scuppered, but then how could I mind when it had been scuppered by such a beautiful creature? For some reason, the idea of the white cat made me happy and not at all disappointed. In that moment, my aim had changed, rather than be their doorstep cat, I wanted to be the white cat’s friend. I was determined to be so.
   ‘Really? You thought she was beautiful? She was horrible, Alfie!’ Tiger was angry.
   ‘I didn’t think she was nice, just pretty,’ I defended myself, but it fell upon deaf ears and Tiger shot me a withering look and stalked off. I followed her but I couldn’t get the white cat’s image out of my mind.
   I trailed behind Tiger as we headed to our little recreation area, where we found four other cats. Elvis, Nellie, Rocky, and mean Tom were all lolling around. Tiger forgot her earlier animosity, eager to tell the others about the new cat. When she had filled them in they turned to me.
   ‘What do you think?’ Tom asked, licking his whiskers.
   ‘She’s stunning,’ I began, but quickly had to duck as Tiger tried to swipe me. ‘But yes, definitely rude,’ I quickly added. A memory of how Jonathan first was when I met him sprang into my head; he threw me out of his house but he loves me now.
   ‘Well, I wonder if she’ll hang out with us.’ Nellie interrupted my thoughts.
   ‘I expect, from what we saw she’ll keep close to home,’ Tiger said, diplomatically.
   ‘I wishhe’d stay close to home,’ Rocky added as Salmon approached.
   ‘I expected to find you here, you are all so boringly predictable. Have you met the new cat?’ Salmon asked, in his sneering voice. As much as he disliked us and we disliked him, he couldn’t resist trying to find out any gossip.
   ‘Yes,’ Tiger replied, refusing to give him more.
   ‘And you think you’re so great, but I have met her too,’ Salmon said.
   ‘And I bet she wouldn’t speak to you,’ I added narrowing my eyes at him and feeling braver for some reason.
   ‘Well, no she wouldn’t. The silly girl ran away as soon as she saw me.’ He sounded annoyed.
   ‘I don’t actually blame her for that,’ Tiger said. We all laughed. Salmon hissed at her and looked as if he was about to pounce.
   ‘Don’t be a silly cat,’ Tom said, standing next to Tiger. ‘Are you really going to take us all on?’ he added.
   ‘You aren’t worth it,’ Salmon hissed again before turning and stalking off.
   ‘I really dislike that cat,’ Rocky stated, echoing all our thoughts.
   Wanting to think, I took myself to the little park at the end of the street, leaving Tiger to go home. She said she was tired but I could tell she was still annoyed with me, and off for one of her customary sulks. I tried to give her a friendly nuzzle as we parted but she brushed me off. I thought I would do something nice for her later, even though I wasn’t sure exactly what I had done.
   When I got to the park I was delighted to see Polly there with the kids. Henry was on the slide and Martha was trying to walk but she kept falling over. I marvelled at her persistence as she kept getting up, with Polly encouraging her.
   ‘Alfie,’ Henry shouted, spotting me and running up to me. He knelt down and stroked me and I enjoyed the fuss. I followed him over to where Polly was now carrying a crying Martha.
   ‘Martha, feeling sad?’ Henry asked, eyes brimming with concern.
   ‘She bumped herself when she fell over, sweetie,’ Polly replied. ‘Hi, Alfie.’ She smiled at me and I miaowed and put my tail up in greeting.
   ‘Right, well we are going to Franceska’s for lunch, although, Alfie, it might be a bit far for you,’ she added as she strapped Martha into the buggy and then tried to coax Henry in.
   ‘I walking,’ Henry said. And suddenly I had a great idea. I had never been to Franceska’s new flat, largely due to my fear of going far from home. When I was forced to leave my first home after Margaret died, I walked for weeks before I got to Edgar Road. I nearly died on a number of occasions — the big roads I had to cross were more dangerous than I could have ever imagined — and so I was fearful, but I did want to see where my third family lived and now, if Henry didn’t want to go into the double pushchair then that meant there was a spare seat. I jumped into it.
   ‘Alfie,’ Polly admonished. Henry laughed, as did Martha. ‘OK, you can come to lunch with us but if Henry needs to go in the buggy you’ll have to sit on his lap.’ Shaking her head she started pushing us. I looked at Martha who was giving me lots of smiles. I happily flicked my tail; I knewwhat she meant, this wasn’t a bad way to travel.
   It seemed quite a long way, and halfway through Henry wanted to get into the pushchair, so Polly put me on his lap.
   As we left the quiet of Edgar Road behind, the streets started to get busier, with more shops springing up, more traffic and definitely a lot more people, as Polly manoeuvred the double buggy round them. I soon put my doubts aside and took notice of our route, just in case. We reached Franceska and Tomasz’s restaurant,Ognisko, where Polly stopped so we could look through the big square window. It looked inviting, I thought, the woodwork on the outside was painted blue, and inside it was full of people, sitting at rustic wooden tables, all looking as if they were enjoying the food that sat on crisp looking linen tablecloths. I was excited to see it for the first time.
   We stood next to a different door and Polly rang the buzzer. Franceska opened it with a huge smile, Polly folded the buggy and left it in the entrance as we made our way upstairs to their flat.
   ‘My goodness, you brought Alfie!’ Franceska beamed and I grinned back as only a cat can do.
   ‘He jumped into the buggy and so I thought, why not? Although pushing a cat down the road made me feel like a crazy woman.’ They both laughed.
   ‘Tomasz?’ Henry said, looking for his friend. It always confused me how both father and the younger son of the family were called Tomasz. I called them big Tomasz and little Tomasz to avoid confusion, but it wasn’t the most sensible way to name people who lived in the same house.
   ‘Sorry, munchkin, he is at school today and Aleksy too. Come though, you can play with his toys.’ Franceska led Henry through to the living room. They had a dining table in the same room as their sofa; it was a big room, warm and inviting and larger than theirs on Edgar Road. The table was laidout with food and I could smell that she had sardines. As if she knew I was coming, my treat awaited. I walked to the table hopefully and miaowed loudly.
   ‘OK, Alfie, you can have your fish. Lucky I had some, although I had no idea you would be here.’ She laughed as she picked me up and gave me a lovely hug.
   We spent a lovely afternoon together. I got to explore the flat— it was wonderful to see where they lived. Big Tomasz, Franceska’s husband, came up to see us after his lunchtime rush and made a huge fuss of me. Big Tomasz suited the name I gave him; he was a big man who was so much softer than he looked. I always wished I knew him better, but as he worked so much I saw the least of him out of everybody. When we had to leave I felt sad, but on the way back Martha and Henry slept so I curled up on Henry’s lap for my lift home, struggling to stay awake after my unexpected excitement.
   I jumped out at Claire and Jonathan’s and rubbed Polly’s legs in thanks for my outing. It was time for me to have a nap but I couldn’t resist going to number 48, for one last look. They had already put curtains up at all the windows at the front and the downstairs ones were closed. This was yet another thing that was odd as itwas middle of the day. One of the rooms upstairs also had closed curtains.
   There was no activity to be seen and no sign of the beautiful white cat. I thought about going round the back but I didn’t want to have another run-in until I thought about how best to approach her. For now, I would sleep on it. It was the best solution, I decided, as I made my way round to my back garden. I was about to go through the cat flap when I remembered something. I went over to our garden fence, the one that divided our house from number 48. When I first moved into Jonathan’s house, I discovered that one of the panels was a bit loose at the bottom. It allowed me to look through to next door’s garden but I hadn’t bothered; I had no need to. Until now.
   I nudged the panel with my nose and was overjoyed to see that it still moved ever so slightly. It wasn’t enough for me to squeeze through but I could see a bit of the garden, I could see the back door too. I could keep an eye on the cat next door, I thought, as I resolved that I would do whatever it took to befriend the white cat. And, as I stepped away from the fence, I knew I wouldn’t stop until I succeeded.
   Chapter Seven
   ‘I don’t mind cooking,’ Jonathan offered, as he stood staring at his prized possession, the coffee machine, which was whirring away. When I’d first heard the chrome thing gurgling and spluttering I thought it was alive and would eat me, but now I was used to it. Jonathan liked shiny gadgetsthat cost a lot of money and made a lot of noise, it seemed.
   ‘Darling, no offence, but when you cook, I have to clean up and it normally takes weeks. Anyway you know what Tasha and Dave are like, they’re happy with anything.’
   ‘OK, but if you cook do I have to clear up?’
   ‘Jonathan, stop being an idiot, you know that I clean up as I go along. You can go and get some nice wine, buy some flowers for the house, and treat me to a new dress.’
   ‘Really, all that?’ Looking bemused he took his coffee and sat at the kitchen table.
   ‘OK, I don’t need a dress but you can get flowers and wine.’
   ‘I would buy you all the dresses in the world if you wanted, you know that.’
   ‘I do and that’s why I love you.’
   Once again, I had to put my paws over my eyes as they started smooching. I was glad they were happy but I didn’t necessarily want to see it. Tasha teased Claire and called it the ‘honeymoon period’. I didn’t know exactly what it meant but I had guessed that it meant it wouldn’t last forever. Hopefully. I was all for affection but people could take it too far — it was almost enough to put me offmy breakfast.
   It was time for me to leave. I had said I would call on Tiger, so we could hang out. Maybe with some of the others, depending on who was around. For the past few days I had not had a sighting of the beautiful white cat. Or its owners for that matter. And I had spent a fair bit of time at the fence. Not only had I not seen her but I didn’t even know her name yet. And I desperately wanted to find out what it was.
   I had heard Claire telling Jonathan she had popped round to say welcome, but there had been no answer, although she was sure she’d heard movement in the house. They were certainly mysterious and I wondered if Vic and Heather had managed to get to them yet. They probably had their binoculars trained on the house as it was.
   I still hadn’t come up with a plan on how to meet the white cat again, but I was working on it. My little brain was always whirring and perhaps today would be the day that I caught sight of her again.
   As I made my way out of the back garden— quickly checking the fence for activity — and round to Tiger’s house, she was waiting for me, giving herself a clean before we set off for our morning walk.
   Exercise was important to me, particularly because of my injury, as I had to keep fit and my limbs moving. So I had taken to going to the park most days, sometimes with Polly, other times with Tiger, as well as strolling up and around Edgar Road.
   ‘Park?’ she asked.
   ‘You read my mind,’ I replied. The park at the end of our road was small but we loved it. Full of bushes, creatures to chase and, of course, children; we found plenty to entertain us there.
   There was also a pond but I didn’t like to think about that after a near-death experience I had falling into it once. Matt rescued me but it taught me to keep away from water. I even avoided puddles if I could.
   On the way, we sneaked a look at number 48, to see if there had been any developments but nothing had changed. The curtains were drawn, although lights were glimmering through them. I wasn’t a judgemental cat but it was most odd.
   ‘Salmon’s family said that there might be twenty people living there,’ I told Tiger. ‘But we only saw four.’
   ‘Yesterday they came round to ours and were ranting on about criminals to my humans. Saying that no one has seen them, they keep the curtains drawn and so they are definitely up to something. They said something about a drugs den but I have no idea what that is.’
   ‘Me neither.’ I tried to think about why they might be so secretive. ‘But I guess we’ll find out soon — they’ll have to show their faces at some point.’ I was agitated, my excitement at the idea of seeing the white cat again was off the scale. Just then we were rewarded as the front door opened and the surly boy walked out. He looked furtively around and then pulled his hood up as he started walking down the path. I felt all of a quiver as I saw that the cat was at his feet.
   ‘Look, Tiger,’ I said, nudging her with my head. We both stood still and looked. When the boy got to the street, he leant down and petted the cat.
   ‘Bye, Snowball,’ he said, sounding cross. ‘Wish me luck.’ Snowball purred and rubbed up against his legs in a most affectionate way. She seemed like a completely different cat from when we met her. And I knew her name!
   As the boy walked off she looked directly at us. I gave her my most charming look but she immediately narrowed her eyes, turned and, with her tail flapping aggressively, stalked back to the front door, where I noticed the woman was standing. She smiled grimly at the cat, picked her up and shut the door.
   ‘Well, I hate to agree with Salmon but they are acting very strangely,’ Tiger stated.
   ‘They are, but at least now we know the beautiful cat is called Snowball.’
   ‘Alfie, she’s mean! And whilst you may think she’s beautiful, I think she’s cold.’ I raised my whiskers — Tiger sounded cold herself.
   ‘Yes but, Tiger, remember how Jonathan was when I first met him. He was horrid and angry towards me, and now he loves me. I think there’s more to this than meets the eye and I intend to find out what’s going on.’
   ‘Here we go again,’ Tiger said, giving me a stern stare.
   I squirmed as I tried to avoid her glaring eyes, but I knew what she meant. I had always meddled and tried to help people; it had been my role since moving to Edgar Road and although things had been calm lately, this little cat couldn’t change its fur. Humans often say that curiosity killed the cat but, actually, it was this that kept me going. Part of our intelligence is our interest in everything; that’s what I fully believe.
   Blip over, we eventually strolled on in companionable silence. Every now and then we’d stop to chase a flying insect, or play with an inviting looking leaf that dangled over the street. I tried to placate Tiger by catching a fly, and I ended up spinning round in circles chasing it, which made her laugh. Soon I was forgiven, although I couldn’t help but wonder why she was so grumpy with me recently.
   When we got to the park, it was almost deserted. I led Tiger to our favourite area, which had some of the bushiest bushes, as well as lots of colourful flowers and a couple of inviting trees. We played a new favourite game of hiding and then jumping out at each other. Although we were pretty silly, it was enjoyable.
   And it was then I saw him.
   ‘Incoming!’ I shouted to Tiger, and we scrambled up the nearest tree. A small, rotund dog, with short legs but long hair, yapped up at us as we teased it. When we came here at this time of day we often ran into this particular dog and it had become part of our exercise routine — I had to hidefrom him when my leg was bad though. The dog was always followed by its screaming owner.
   ‘Roly, come here! Roly, stop, ROLY,’ a grey haired woman cried out as she made her way, huffing and puffing over, brandishing a lead as if it was a whip. It made us laugh as she finally clipped the lead on the dog and chastised him.
   ‘Bad dog. We do not chase cats,’ she shouted. ‘How many times do I have to tell you?’
   ‘Many more, I hope,’ Tiger laughed. We weren’t in any real danger after all, and it certainly livened up our afternoon.
   ‘Honestly, humans spend all this time and money going to the gym whereas all we have to do is get a dog to chase us,’ I observed to Tiger.
   ‘And those humans think they’re the smart ones,’ she replied with a wry smile.
   When we got back to Edgar Road, Tiger went off for her nap and I went to Polly and Matt’s. I suspected Matt would be at work but the children might be there. I let myself in through the cat flap and to my delight found Polly and Franceska in the kitchen.
   ‘Alfie,’ Franceska said, getting up to give me a stroke. ‘I’ve seen so much of you this week.’
   ‘I bet you want some lunch.’ Polly smiled and got up. She opened a can of salmon and put it in a special bowl she kept just for me. She poured water into my water bowl too, which I was grateful for. Exercise left me thirsty. There was no sign of the children; I realized the boys were at nurseryand school respectively and Martha was probably asleep. I curled up by the kitchen window and took a well-deserved rest as I listened to the chatter of the two women.
   ‘The thing is, Aleksy doesn’t talk to me,’ Franceska said. ‘I mean I ask him how is school and he just says “OK, Mama.” But nothing else.’
   ‘But you think something is wrong?’ Polly looked concerned, as did I. I remembered the other day when he’d been a bit quiet, I thought he was about to tell me something when we were interrupted.
   ‘He has some tears in his clothes, and he loses his things, like his pencil case. He seems quieter than normal and suddenly less keen on school.’
   ‘Have you spoken to the school?’
   ‘I’ve got an appointment with the head later, but you know you hear about bullying and how hard it is for children to talk about it. I can’t bear it if someone hurts my Aleksy.’
   ‘Of course you can’t, Frankie, being a mum means we worry about them constantly. I get upset at playgroup when I see someone pushing one of mine, but the thought that we don’t know what they are going through …’
   ‘I know. Motherhood is wonderful but worry is the price.’
   ‘And guilt.’ Polly’s eyes clouded over, briefly. ‘Well, let me know what the school says and if there’s anything we can do. Aleksy and Matt are close, so maybe he can take him out for football and talk to him.’
   ‘I would so very appreciate that.’ Franceska’s English was so much better than it had been when we first met but when she was upset, mistakes started to come through. ‘His dad tries to talk to him but he’s clammed up with him too.’
   I felt a flutter in my chest. Things had been calm for so long that there was bound to be something else coming up. But Aleksy? I never expected that. I knew I would need to keep a close eye on this situation, as well as the new family. I had a feeling things were going to get busy again.
   ‘What about the weekend? Why don’t we meet up on Sunday?’
   ‘Ah that would be great, we could all go to the park and maybe Matt could try to talk to Aleksy then. We’ve both tried but he won’t …’
   ‘Frankie, it’s common for children not to want to worry their parents; they don’t understand by not talking they worry us more. But we’ll get to the bottom of it, I promise.’ Polly reached over and grabbed Franceska’s hands. I purred gently, happy to see another friendship that was so solid and knowing that I had been its foundation. It reminded me that I wanted to help people, both Aleksy and the new family. It was what I did.
   I miaowed loudly and went to rub against Franceska’s legs. Yes we would get to the bottom of it, I was determined. My to-do list was growing again.
   Chapter Eight
   I fell asleep at some point after they left to pick up the boys and when I woke it was almost dark. I stretched out languidly; I had no idea how long I’d been asleep but it seemed like ages. I made my way back to Claire and Jonathan’s. I was excited because Tasha, one of my other favourite humans was coming over for dinner with her partner Dave. Annoyingly, he was allergic to cats but when he came over he took some sort of pill to stop him sneezing. Everyone found it amusing but not me, I was affronted; it was no joking matter, having to take anti-cat pills. I used to say I would never trust a man who was allergic to cats but Dave seems OK and I love Tasha, so I have to accept him.
   As I let myself back into the house, Claire was cooking and Jonathan was humming as he read the newspaper at the table. They both had drinks and they looked happy. As I sat by the door, head cocked to one side, watching them, I felt lucky yet again.
   ‘Alfie,’ they both said in unison as they greeted me. Jonathan and Claire smiled broadly at me. I nudged my bowl to tell them I was hungry.
   ‘I’m on it, Alfie,’ Jonathan said, going to the enormous fridge.
   ‘Jonathan, he doesn’t need to have smoked salmon. That’s for breakfast tomorrow and I’ve got lots of cat food,’ Claire stated, sounding cross.
   I miaowed in protest.
   ‘Hey, before I knew you existed, my darling, I gave him lots of fish. I can’t stop that and just give him the rubbish you feed him.’
   ‘He’s spoilt.’
   ‘He should be, he’s an extraordinary cat.’ Jonathan sliced the salmon and laid it in my bowl as if it was a five star restaurant. I licked my lips.
   ‘He most definitely is.’ Claire smiled indulgently.
   By the time Tasha and Dave arrived, some very appealing smells were coming from the kitchen. I loved Tasha and when she visited, it reminded me of the days when it was just me and Claire and she was our first real friend. I rushed to greet them as Jonathan opened the door, getting gently scolded for getting in the way.
   ‘Alfie, you’re going to trip me up if you insist on getting under my feet,’ he admonished as he opened the door. I was too eager, I know, but I was one excited cat.
   ‘Hi,’ Jonathan said, smiling and standing back to let Tasha and Dave in. Tasha immediately picked me up and Dave handed Jonathan some drinks and looked at me warily.
   ‘Hi, Alfie,’ he said, but I noticed he didn’t get too close. I toyed with the idea of rubbing up against him to say hello, but realized that I just had to accept our arm’s-length relationship and that I shouldn’t be offended.
   ‘Missed you, Alfie,’ Tasha said as she carried me through to the kitchen. I revelled in her hug, she was so warm and caring, but there was something different about her tonight. I immediately sensed it. Something good, not bad, although I had no idea exactly what it was.
   ‘Hi, Tash, oh you’ve got Alfie.’ Claire leant in to kiss Tasha’s cheek then Dave’s who was close behind her.
   ‘Right,’ Jonathan said, ‘drinks.’ Tasha put me on the floor.
   ‘Beer please, mate,’ Dave asked.
   ‘Tash?’ Jonathan asked. ‘We’ve got wine of every description.’
   Tasha and Dave exchanged a look.
   ‘Well, the thing is that I’m off alcohol,’ she started.
   ‘Why, what’s wrong?’ Claire asked. Her back was turned and she was emptying some posh crisps into a bowl.
   ‘Well, actually nothing’s wrong, it’s just that I’m, well, we are pregnant!’ Tasha laughed, happiness written all over her face. Dave beamed too, and Jonathan went and slapped him on his back.
   ‘Great news, guys, congratulations.’ He kissed Tasha’s cheek. Claire froze for a moment, her face a picture of anxiety as she gripped onto the counter. I could see her struggle and then her fear. I willed her to say something; thankfully she turned around, plastering a smile to her face, composure resumed. My lovely Claire was instantly back.
   ‘Wonderful news, Tash, Dave. Oh how brilliant.’ She smiled, kissed and hugged her friends. I was able to exhale.
   Over the evening, as there was chatter of babies between the women, I could sense Claire’s underlying tension.
   Although she was behaving naturally and they talked about all sorts of things, the evening had definitely become about Tasha.
   ‘So do you think the acupuncture worked?’ Claire asked.
   ‘I don’t know for sure, but it might have done. It certainly didn’t do any harm.’ Tasha smiled. ‘I cannot believe how excited I am. I mean I know it’s early days but, wow, it just all feels so amazing.’
   ‘No sickness?’
   ‘Oh yes, all day, not sure why they call it morning. But by evening I’m hungry, so thank you for doing dinner.’ She laughed, her face was alive with joy.
   ‘It’s nothing special, if I’d known I might have produced something more suited to a special occasion,’ Claire said.
   ‘No shellfish or liver luckily,’ Jonathan laughed.
   ‘Oh get you,’ Claire teased. ‘Pregnancy expert.’
   ‘Hopefully you guys won’t be far behind us,’ Dave offered. Claire concentrated on her food and didn’t reply to that.
   As the evening wore on, I noticed that Claire had drunk quite a lot; it was as if she had consumed Tasha’s share of wine too.
   ‘I’m so happy for you,’ she kept saying over and over. I saw that Jonathan kept his arm protectively round his wife as they sat at the table and he didn’t normally do that. Claire wasn’t an alcoholic but when she was stressed she often drank quite a bit. She used to when she was unhappy and I didn’t want her to go back to those days. But Tasha and Dave were so happy, radiantly, that they didn’t seem to notice. They left shortly after polishing off their pudding, Tasha explaining that she was so tired she could barely keep her eyes open. As she kissed me goodbye I could only hopethis baby didn’t take after Dave in the cat allergy stakes.
   When it was just the three of us once again, Jonathan cleared up while Claire nursed another drink. I set myself onto her lap, and she idly stroked me.
   ‘Are you all right?’ Jonathan asked, tension lining his face.
   ‘I am, I mean I should be, but I’m worried, Jon. What if it doesn’t happen for us?’
   ‘OK, darling.’ He put down the tea towel and sat beside her. ‘Why are you thinking like this?’
   ‘I should be happy when my best friend is pregnant but all I could think was that I wished it was me. That’s not how I want to react.’
   ‘Darling, we haven’t been trying for as long as they have; it’s only been a few months, so you can’t start worrying about it.’
   ‘Deep down I know that, but you know my history with anxiety. I’m not sure I can help it. I just worry about it all the time. I mean, everywhere I look, experts are all saying you should have your first baby in your early thirties and I’m not anymore.’ She looked so upset I wanted to cry for her.
   ‘OK, well why don’t you go and see Tasha’s acupuncturist; that can’t hurt, and it’s all natural. And you know anything you need to do to relax, we’ll do, go for long walks, have massages, give up work if you want to.’
   ‘Jonathan, I think that might be a bit extreme.’ Claire laughed, sadly. ‘And you hate walking.’
   ‘I didn’t exactly mean me. But I will do whatever it takes to make you happy. As long as you don’t put my boxers in the freezer.’
   ‘Why on earth would I do that?’ Claire asked, echoing my thoughts.
   ‘Pretend I didn’t say that. I know, we’ll go away for the weekend, somewhere romantic.’ I narrowed my sleepy eyes. I instinctively knew that offer didn’t include me. ‘Claire, I know you want a baby but you can’t let it get to you, not before we’ve even got a problem.’
   ‘I know, Jon, I’ll be OK, it’s just I don’t want to be the woman who is jealous of everyone else’s baby news.’
   ‘No, soon you’ll be the womanwith the baby news. I’m sure of it.’ He stood up, took her hand, and kissed her. I jumped off her lap, as he led her to bed, and I went to my basket. I needed to curl up, think and sleep.
   Chapter Nine
   I was up very early after being woken in the small hours by Jonathan who had to go to Germany for work. I didn’t know where Germany was but I had gathered it was a different country. He had to go on a plane, which was a way that humans travelled, sort of on a giant bird that I had often watched flying overhead, and he would be gone for two days. He often went away for work and Claire said she liked it asshe didn’t have to pick up his dirty socks and she could read uninterrupted. I took this to mean she missed him terribly. I certainly did. I had two days of cat ready meals to look forward to.
   Jonathan didn’t even try to be quiet as he got ready to leave, banging doors, swearing as he stubbed his foot and waking me and Claire.
   ‘Guten tag,’ he said, while Claire groaned loudly. I followed him downstairs, trying to look my most charming, because I was hoping for my last nice breakfast. I was rewarded with tuna. I rubbed against Jonathan’s legs to convey that I would miss him, and although he kept telling me to get off him in case I left fur on his smart trousers, I knew he appreciated it. I ate as he made coffee and munched a piece of toast before grabbing his overnight bag, and as Claire emerged from upstairs, he kissed her goodbye and was gone.
   ‘He can be such a whirlwind, can’t he?’ Claire said, putting the kettle on and smiling warmly at me. I miaowed in agreement; Jonathan was like a ball of energy and that was one of the reasons we loved him, but the house was always calmer without him. We missed him but we also liked having a bit of peace and quiet, not that I would ever tell Jonathan that.
   As Claire got ready for work I decided to go and see my new next door neighbours. I had hardly glimpsed Snowball or any of her family in the month that they’d been here. I’d taken to hanging out quite a bit by the loose fence panel but to no avail. My curiosity was reaching new heights and, not that I would admit it to anyone, I couldn’t get Snowball’s angelic face out of my head. I thought about her almost constantly, and I was in turmoil. I wantedso desperately to see her but I didn’t know why, or even what I would do when I did. As I reached their back garden I crept forward to look into the house. I could see through the patio doors that the family were all at the kitchen table. The woman was wearing some kind of blue uniform, andshe looked tired. The boy was slumped overa computer and was also wearing a uniform, but not like the mother. As I watched, the girl entered the room wearing an outfit similar to the boy but with a skirt rather than trousers. I gathered this was a school thing, like Aleksy only for older children.The man was making breakfast but sadly there was no sign of Snowball.
   I was mesmerized, watching the scene from a well-placed bush. I wondered if I was a bit like a cat version of a stalker but then stalkers were bad and I had only good intentions. After a while the woman kissed everyone goodbye and made her way out of the room. Then the father passed two boxes to the children and looked as if he was hurrying them out. I couldn’t make out what anyone was saying but suddenly the room was totally empty. I saw my chance.
   It might not have been the most sensible thing ever, but before I knew it, certainly before I thought it through, I found myself at the other back door, creeping gently through the cat flap and into the house. As I stood in the kitchen, I wondered what to do next, but then I heard footsteps coming back towards the room. I quickly looked around and spotted an open cupboard. I leapt in it. The cupboard was full of cat food; pouches and boxes of biscuits, the sort Claire favoured.
   ‘Come on, Snowball,’ I heard the man say. ‘I’ve laid your breakfast out.’ I held my breath as I saw the man’s legs. He walked towards the cupboard I was in so I quickly nestled behind a box, and before I knew what was happening, he pushed the door closed.
   I blinked and adjusted to the darkness as I tried not to panic. I was trapped. I had no idea what would happen to me if the family found me in their cupboard and the thought made my heart beat loudly. I could almost hear it jumping out of my chest. I would be amazed if the cupboard wasn’t shaking as much as I was. I crouched, trying to calm myself down, breathing slowly and trying to think positively.
   ‘That’s a good cat, Snowy, eat your breakfast,’ the man said. I heard her purr, which sounded almost musical. ‘Right then, I’m going to look for work again.’ He paused. ‘Not sure it’s worth it, but I’m going to go upstairs and shut myself in my study, looking for jobs that don’texist and hoping something comes along to save us.’ I heard his voice, laden with sadness, and wished I could see him, to see what was reflected on his face. ‘Oh, Snowball, why do I feel that you’re the only one who doesn’t blame me?’
   Snowball miaowed, gently. She was saying that she supported him.
   ‘Well, talking to you, as lovely as it is, isn’t going to get my family fixed. I’d better go.’ After a few more moments I heard his footsteps moving away. I breathed again and thought about calling out. I was pretty sure Snowball would be able to open the cupboard, after all I could open them at home if I needed to. I weighed up the risks. On the one hand I would have to face Snowball’s wrath, if she rescued me. On the other hand, I would have to stay in the cupboard and risk being discovered — and as she’d just been fed it could be hours. I decided to risk Snowball as it meant that at least I would get to see her. I miaowed as loudly as I dared.
   ‘What on earth?’ I heard her say, before I heard her paws padding outside the cupboard. I miaowed again. I could hear her scratching at the door and finally, after what seemed like an eternity, it opened a crack. She put her slender paw in and opened it fully. Finally we were face to face.
   ‘Thank you,’ I breathed, relief overtaking my fear.
   ‘You again,’ she hissed. Her beautiful eyes were full of anger.
   ‘I’m sorry, Snowball. I’m Alfie, in case you’d forgotten. I just wanted to welcome you to the neighbourhood properly and … well … I …’ I really hadn’t thought this through.
   ‘So you decided to break into my house and crawl into my food cupboard? What kind of maniac are you?’ She looked so angry but so gorgeous at the same time. I almost swooned. I tried to muster all my charm.
   ‘I just wanted to say hello, as I haven’t seen you since you moved in. I’m just a friendly neighbour and want us to be friends.’
   ‘I don’t need friends, thank you very much,’ she replied.
   ‘We all need friends,’ I replied. ‘And from what I can tell, things aren’t easy here.’
   ‘That is none of your business,’ she replied. This was one frosty cat.
   ‘I just want to help. Why did you move here?’
   ‘Alfie, I cannot decide if you are stupid orvery stupid. I do not want you to be a friend. I do not want you here. Any problems my family have are our own and we don’t need anyone else interfering.’ She bared her teeth aggressively.
   ‘I’m not trying to interfere, I just want to be supportive.’
   ‘You are very stupid, I see. Now leave me in peace before I get really angry.’ Her eyes flashed and she looked as if she might actually attack me. I knew I was beaten. For now.
   ‘OK, I’ll leave, but you know everyone needs friends, even you, and you know where I am when you need me.’
   ‘Preferably never in my house again,’ she hissed as I left.
   I left her garden straight away and went to find Tiger. Snowball was all miaow and no bite I decided. She might not be welcoming me with open paws now, but I knew she would. I wasn’t a cat to give up easily after all. It suddenly came to me. I would take her a house-warming gift, just like I did for Jonathan. A mouse. No, a bird. A bird was much more of a thoughtful gift, being harder to chase for us cats, and generally prettier. As I spotted Tiger outside her house I grinned. She was a better hunter, so I’d need to get her to help. Now I had a plan, it was only a matter of time before Snowball liked me; and with that wonderful thought, I left to put my plan into action, feeling as if I were floating on air.
   Chapter Ten
   I left the bird for Snowball by her cat flap later that day. I waited for ages to give it to her in person, but there was no sign of her around and so I had no choice but to leave it. Tiger had helped me chase it, but I felt bad as I fibbed a bit and told her it was for one of my humans. You see, I was going to tell her who it was for but then when I told her I had been in the cupboard, and had a conversation with Snowball she had been really short with me. Especially when I mentioned again how beautiful I found her. If I didn’t know better I would say that Tiger was jealous … but that made no sense. I tried to tell her that Snowball and her family needed help, but Tiger wouldn’t listen to me. Instead she told me that, for once, perhaps I should stop being such an interfering cat and concentrate on those who actually cared about me. I didn’t fully understand her hostility.
   I was still pondering on the fact that two female cats in my life were less than pleased with me— although I knew I could get round Tiger easily enough — as I returned home. The house was empty although I knew that Claire was due back any minute. I gave myself a quick wash and waited for her by the front door. When I heard the key in the lock and the door open I miaowed. After the day I’d had, I needed someone to be nice to me.
   ‘Hi, Alfie, it’s not often you greet me at the door. Is it because you’re worried I’m missing Jonathan?’ She rubbed my neck which was one of my favourite things ever. I purred with delight.
   After Claire showered and dressed, she fed me and poured herself a glass of wine. I ate quickly then we both sat together in the living room. Her with her book and me with my thoughts of Snowball. I was totally enchanted with her. The doorbell interrupted us and I rushed to see who it was.
   ‘Polly,’ Claire said, opening the door, ‘come in quick, and have a glass of wine, we’ve just got time.’
   I cocked my head to one side, puzzled. Time before what?
   ‘Do you think we can sneak a bottle in? It might make it more bearable.’
   ‘Pol, even a litre of Vodka wouldn’t make this more bearable.’ I wondered what they were talking about.
   ‘I can’t believe I have to go,’ Polly moaned.
   ‘Why do you?’
   ‘We tossed a coin. Three times. I lost,’ she replied.
   ‘Yeah, well at least that’s a bit fair. I’m convinced that Jonathan booked his business trip so he would miss the Neighbourhood Watch meeting.’
   Ahh, I suddenly understood. It was the night of Heather and Vic’s big gathering and no one looked forward to that. I decided I would go and see Matt, otherwise I’d be on my own all night and, as I was still a bit bruised from my day, I didn’t fancy being alone.
   ‘I guess you’ll make him pay for that though,’ Polly laughed.
   ‘Don’t you worry, if this is the hell I think it’s going to be, then he will definitely pay.’
   ‘Do you think your new neighbours will be there?’ Polly asked.
   ‘I don’t know. You know what’s weird is that I haven’t seen them. I couldn’t even tell you what they look like. I did go round a couple of times with a gift to introduce myself but there was no answer.’ Like cat, like owner.
   ‘I don’t agree with the way Vic and Heather are behaving, acting as if the new family has something to hide but these guys aren’t doing themselves any favours by keeping themselves to themselves,’ Polly pointed out.
   ‘I know, it’s a bit strange. But then, I’m sure there’s a perfectly reasonable explanation,’ Claire replied.
   ‘Let’s hope so, for their sake, otherwise Vic and Heather will be rounding up a lynch mob before we know it.’ They both laughed as they drained their wine and made their way out. I fleetingly wished I could have gone with them — I was intrigued to know what the meeting was actually going tobe about, but of course with Salmon there I would be far from welcome. There was no way I was going to risk crossing his path.
   I let myself into Matt and Polly’s and found him sitting on the sofa, looking very pleased with himself.
   ‘Ah, Alfie, nice of you to join me on my boys’ night.’ I saw he had a bottle of beer open on the coffee table. I miaowed and jumped on the sofa next to him. ‘Ha, thank goodness I didn’t have to go to that godawful meeting. You better make yourself comfortable; they’re going to be gone hours.’ He was smiling and I thought he was lucky Polly couldn’t see him. She wouldn’t be happy.
   I smiled and curled myself up, nestling into him. As he put a film on the television I sighed contentedly. It was nice to relax at the end of a busy day.
   ‘Matt,’ I heard a voice shout. Startled, I opened my eyes, as did Matt. ‘Wake up, boys, you were both snoring,’ Polly stated.
   ‘Sorry, I must have fallen asleep,’ Matt said. I glared at Polly, blinking. I did not snore. Perish, the thought. ‘What time is it?’ he asked.
   ‘Gone eleven. I’m so angry with you, and with you, Alfie, that neither of you had to endure the hell I did tonight.’
   ‘So go on, what happened?’ Matt looked as if he was trying hard not to smile, although he still looked as sleepy as I did.
   ‘Well, where do I start? The new people didn’t come, despite the fact that Heather and Vic had been knocking on their door daily and had also posted a number of flyers through their letter box. Apparently they did see the daughter of the family, a teenage girl who was on her way back from school, and she said that she was sorry but her parents were really up to their necks.’
   ‘So of course they aren’t going to accept that,’ Matt said.
   ‘They certainly are not. We tried to reason with Vic and Heather, reminding them that a month isn’t long when you move house and perhaps they needed to give them a bit more time, but then of course they immediately jumped to conclusions, saying they obviously had something to hide. So after hours of speculation they no longer think the house is full of illegal immigrants, but it’s a drugs den.’ Polly shook her head.
   ‘Based on what?’
   ‘Nothing but the fact that they haven’t shown themselves. Honestly, Matt, they’re crazed! Apparently it’s our duty, along with everyone else on the street, to watch the house — especially at night — and to report back.’
   ‘You’re kidding?’
   ‘No, they even suggested drawing up a roster, but we all said that it wouldn’t work. You know, we have lives. Jesus, Matt. And what’s worse is that some of the other neighbours agreed with them — either they’re mad too or they were too scared to argue. Anyway, they’re having another meeting in a month, attendance is compulsory and you and Jonathan will have to go, my love.’ It was Polly’s turn to smile.
   ‘Oh boy, that’s something to look forward to. Drugs? Immigrants? This is going to be a barrel of laughs.’
   As Polly and Matt hugged, and then started kissing like teenagers I saw it was time for me to take my leave. Matt and Polly had been together for years and years so I had no idea why they had to behave like that. I was going to alert them to the fact that I was going, but they looked so engrossed in each other that I quietly slunk out. I had a feeling I wouldn’t be missed. As I entered my house and made my way upstairs I remembered again that Jonathan was away which meant that Claire would let me sleep on her bed. Yay! I punched my tail in the air in celebration. This day hadn’t gone exactly to plan but it had ended well.
   Chapter Eleven
   ‘Let me get this straight,’ Tiger said. ‘You’re asking me to leave home at the crack of dawn and walk for miles to Aleksy’s house?’
   ‘Yes,’ I replied, simply. Tiger and I were friends once again; her sulk had only been a short one.
   I hadn’t seen Snowball since the cupboard incident, over a week ago, and I knew better than to mention it to Tiger. I didn’t even talk to her about the Goodwins’ meeting, which I had also heard Claire discussing with Jonathan. She told him much the same as I’d heard from Polly, only adding that Vic and Heather said they would have their binoculars trained on the house at all times — meaning they might stray to our house. Jonathan had been pulling the blinds down just in case.
   ‘Why, again?’ Tiger pushed. I had explained it once but once was never enough for her. Tiger needed to hear everything at least twice before she seemed to understand it.
   I had devised one of my plans. Franceska had been for lunch at Polly’s. Strong, stoic Franceska, who was so much an anchor for all my families, was in tears as she explained that she had been to Aleksy’s school but it seemed to have made no difference. The school explained that if Aleksy was, as Franceska and big Tomasz feared, being bullied, they had to eithersee it happening or Aleksy had to tell them, for them to take any action. But when asked, Aleksy kept saying he was fine. Despite the school saying that they would keep a close eye on things, Franceska wasn’t convinced this was enough. Whilst Aleksy wouldn’t tell them what was going on, he keptcoming home covered in scratches and bruises — clear proof, Franceska said, that someone was hurting him.
   My sweet Franceska was distraught. And my best human friend, Aleksy, had cried himself to sleep and Franceska didn’t know what to do. It broke my heart, so I decided to take matters into my own paws. I would go to the school myself. I would find out what was wrong with Aleksy and I would fix it.
   ‘Right, so I remember from my trip with Polly where they live. We have to leave very early because I don’t know how long it’ll take to walk, as I went in the pushchair last time. Anyway, when we get there we’ll follow Aleksy to school.’
   ‘Right, and then what?’ Tiger looked at me as if I was mad. It was almost a fair assumption.
   ‘Well, that’s what I don’t know.’ I knew I had to get to Aleksy and show him that I was there for him. I also knew I had to sort out the bullying, if he was in fact being bullied, but I had no idea how exactly. What did people expect? I am a cat after all.
   ‘So let me get this straight. We’re going to walk miles but we don’t even know what we’re going to do when we get there? This might be one of your more genius ideas, Alfie. Maybe even better than the one involving nearly getting yourself killed by Joe, Claire’s idiot ex-boyfriend.’ I looked at Tiger; sarcasm was very unbecoming in a cat.
   ‘All right, I know it’s not perfect. But I cannot bear to think my Aleksy is sad. Tiger, I have to do something.’ I was pleading.
   ‘I know, I know.’ She sounded exasperated. ‘And after all you’ve been through there is no way I’m letting you go all that way on your own. No way. So I guess I have to come with you. But you owe me. Big time.’
   ‘Oh thank you. I’ll call for you tomorrow morning and I promise, I will make it up to you.’ She looked at me, stretched out her paws and lifted her whiskers.
   ‘I hope so, Alfie, I really do.’
   ‘Tiger, you are the best friend any cat could have,’ I said, as I bounded off home to rest up for the big journey.
   It was still dark when I woke but the birds alerted me with the dawn chorus; it was my early morning alarm call and for once I was grateful for them, as I stretched and quietly padded downstairs and out of the cat flap. I went to Tiger’s house and quietly made my way through her door, and found her drinking some milk. I was hungry but I knew I had no chance of breakfast before I left, so I would have to bear it. If I’d left any of my supper from the night before, Claire would have cleaned it away. Tiger’s humans were a little less bothered with mess.
   ‘Ready?’ I whispered. She licked her whiskers and followed me outside. As I didn’t venture far from home anymore, I felt nervous as we set off. I had paid very special attention to where we were going when I visited with Polly and luckily, the dark had no bearing on my senses. As we walked past Snowball’s house, we both stopped and looked. Through the darkness a white flash chased a creature under a bush taking us by surprise.
   ‘She’s up early,’ Tiger said looking at me. I glanced over at Snowball, who peered directly at us in her hostile way, but I didn’t stop; I had bigger fish to fry. Oh how I wish I had a fish to fry in actual fact.
   Snowball didn’t move as we strode on. I thought it wouldn’t hurt her to think I had lost interest; Jonathan always said women liked the chase, and he seemed to know a lot of women before settling down with Claire so maybe he was right.
   ‘So you’re not talking to Princess Mean then?’ Tiger asked me as we headed towards the park.
   ‘Tiger, today is about Aleksy, and you are with me, so let’s leave the talk of Snowball.’
   ‘Fine by me,’ she replied.
   The sky was slowly beginning to lighten as we walked; the air began to get warmer as the sun made its presence felt. Although I still felt a bit uneasy, as we got nearer to Aleksy’s my confidence began to grow. The closer we got the more life appeared in the streets, as the world began to come alive. It was strange for me, being out at this time. Normally I would be fast asleep in my warm bed, but now, braving the biting dawn, I saw a different side of life and it made merealize how cosseted I had become.
   Since my mission to find a new home after Margaret died, the long journey that led me to Edgar Road had put me off leaving there again. I rarely ventured further than the park at the end of the street. I looked over at Tiger, reassured by having her at my side.
   ‘This is the street,’ I said as we rounded a corner. I knew the flat would be easy to find as it was above the restaurant. So after walking a bit further, we arrived at our destination. The walk had taken a long time, but then we hadn’t been rushing. Tiger wasn’t one for running about afterall. And we both made sure we took in every landmark so that we didn’t have to worry about finding our way back again.
   ‘This is it,’ I said as we stood outsideOgnisko. It was in darkness of course, and as we found a hiding place nearby I tried not to think about Franceska’s sardines as my stomach rumbled.
   ‘So what now?’ Tiger asked.
   ‘We wait for Aleksy to come out and follow him to school. But, it’s important that they don’t see us.’
   ‘Why?’
   ‘Because it’ll be a surprise when I turn up.’
   ‘And what are you going to do when you get there?’
   ‘I don’t know but I hope I’m going to get some inspiration.’ To be honest, I didn’t have a clue what I was dealing with and I had never, ever been in a school before. My plan wasn’t without flaws.
   ‘This better not be another dangerous situation you’re getting us into again,’ Tiger warned.
   ‘They are children, not adults,’ I pointed out. ‘And anyway, once we get to the school I will be going in alone,’ I said more bravely than I felt.
   ‘I could come with you, find the bully, and scratch him really bad,’ Tiger suggested, looking a bit too keen on the idea for my liking.
   ‘No, Tiger, no violence. Not in this case. The bully might be nasty, and goodness knows if he is, I dislike him for hurting Aleksy, but he’s still a child.’
   ‘OK. If you insist, I’ll just watch you and not interfere.’ Tiger bristled. She seemed almost disappointed that she wasn’t going to get to inflict pain on someone.
   ‘Thank you,’ I replied and we waited in silence.
   After what felt like a long time, I saw little Tomasz first as he appeared out of the front door, jumping, full of energy. Franceska was next and she turned and spoke, before Aleksy appeared. He was looking sad and I could sense his reluctance in the way he looked and moved. Tiger and I hung back and then began to follow them in silence. It was easy to keep out of sight, by dodging behind the odd fence or bush. Whereas Tomasz chatted animatedly to his mother, Aleksy was largely silent as he dragged his feet.
   ‘Oh look, there’s the school,’ Tiger said and we stopped and hid by a parked car. We watched as Franceska and the boys crossed the road.
   ‘I’m glad it wasn’t too far,’ I said as I looked. ‘So that’s their school.’ I was quite excited to see where Aleksy and little Tomasz spent their days. I had seen schools before, of course, in passing but I had never been in one before.
   There were children everywhere. As Franceska dropped the boys at the gate they went through it and into the playground, a noisy tarmacked area, swarming with loud little people. Tomasz ran off in one direction and Aleksy stayed close to the gate. As Franceska turned, shooting a last worried look at Aleksy before walking off, that was my cue.
   ‘OK,’ I said as Tiger and I crossed the road. ‘Stay by the gate. If anything bad happens I’ll make my loudest noise.’
   ‘Good luck, Alfie,’ Tiger said, nuzzling my neck. I felt tense again as I squeezed through the bars of the gate and into the playground. I followed Aleksy as he made his way across the playground to a big building. Then I saw a group of children. One of them waved at Aleksy, but another child, a little bigger than Aleksy, stopped him.
   ‘Here’s the cry baby,’ he said nastily. I looked at all the boys and girls. None of them looked comfortable with the horrible boy but I could see that they were all too scared to say anything.
   ‘Leave me alone,’ Aleksy said, although I could hear the wobble in his voice.
   ‘Make me.’ All the other children looked aghast at the two boys. No one seemed to know what to do.
   ‘I don’t want to fight with you,’ Aleksy said. I wanted to fight him though. I wanted to give this kid a good hard swipe — but I told myself violence wasn’t the answer.
   ‘Because you are a baby and a chicken.’ The boy started to make chicken noises as he came very close to Aleksy. ‘I guess I’ll just take your lunch,’ he said.
   ‘No … you can’t have it,’ Aleksy stammered back. I was proud of him; I could see he was scared, but he was still sticking up for himself.
   ‘I think you’ll find I can.’
   I wondered where the adults were. I spotted one but she was the other side of the playground and hadn’t noticed what was going on.
   I realized that children weren’t so different from adults. You got nice ones and mean ones, but as I watched, I saw that this was just a sad kid who was acting tougher than he actually was. I couldn’t tell Aleksy this though, so I decided that it was time for me to act.
   I moved towards Aleksy and miaowed loudly.
   ‘Alfie,’ he said, startled, fear forgotten. ‘What are you doing here?’ He picked me up. I purred into him.
   ‘Is that your cat?’ one of the children asked.
   ‘Yes, well he lives in my old road, not at my house, but he’s very clever. He must have followed me all the way to school!’ Aleksy put me down and all the children rushed to pet me. I made myself my most charming as I purred and revelled in the attention.
   ‘It’s only a stupid cat,’ the nasty boy said. I wasn’t scared though, he didn’t really pose as much of a threat as many adults and other animals I’d met. After all, I’d once had a seagull threaten me and a horrid man nearly kill me. This was nothing compared to that. But I was powerless as the nasty boy took Aleksy by surprise and grabbed the bag off his back. Aleksy grappled with him but there was nothing I could do as the bag swung out and hit a little girl in the face. I seemed to be the only one who noticed as the girl burst into tears and ran off; both boys scrambled to grab the bag. Aleksy won. I looked over at the crying little girl, torn about what to do — I was here to protect Aleksy, but I knew I could quickly cheer her up if I went over and snuggled up to her.
   But before I could decide, the bully looked at Aleksy who was now clutching the bag to his chest, then at me. As if weighing up his next move he stepped towards me. I stood my ground, looked at him and hissed aggressively. The boy looked a bit startled and quickly stumbled back.
   ‘See, he doesn’t like you. He only likes nice people,’ Aleksy said, looking and sounding a bit braver. The other children laughed too.
   The boy looked at Aleksy, his eyes full of anger, and then he looked at me.
   ‘Dumb cat,’ he said. I flicked my tail up in anger, and hissed at him again. He backed away.
   ‘Ha, Ralph is afraid of a cat,’ Aleksy said. I realized then, as Aleksy’s eyes sparkled that although I hadn’t done much, I had given Aleksy confidence — and that was exactly what he needed. As all the other children laughed, a bell rang out. I stuck close to Aleksy; I wanted to see more of this school, it seemed an intense but interesting place.
   It was both scary and exciting as I seemed to be caught up in a sea of legs, making their way into what I learned was a classroom. There were a lot of children, all chattering loudly as I stayed close to Aleksy. I managed to follow him into the room, sneaking past a lady they called‘Miss Walton’.
   Ralph was red faced and clearly not happy. As the children competed to sit near Aleksy he had the biggest smile on his face. Meanwhile, Ralph sat on his own.
   ‘Right, time for the register,’ Miss Walton said, not having spotted me yet. She looked quite young and smiled a lot. As one by one the children answered to their names I began to enjoy myself.
   ‘Molly?’ Miss Walton said. There was silence. ‘Has anyone seen Molly?’ she asked, looking concerned.
   ‘She was in the playground, Miss,’ one child pointed out; I guessed they meant the little girl who had been hit by Aleksy’s bag. I felt terrible for having forgotten her, and knew that I had to help them find her.
   I miaowed very loudly. The teacher looked over and saw me jump onto Aleksy’s desk, making everyone laugh.
   ‘Hi, and who are you?’ she asked, as she came over.
   ‘This is Alfie, he lives in my old street but he is a very special cat,’ Aleksy said proudly. ‘He must have followed me to school today and it’s very far.’
   ‘Well hello, Alfie,’ she said, stroking me. ‘But you’re not allowed to be in school, I’m afraid. This is for humans only.’ She laughed and I miaowed again. I jumped off the desk and, yowling as loudly as I could, started to walk towards the door.
   ‘Oh please can he stay?’ Aleksy asked. The others all cried out in agreement. All apart from Ralph who looked at his feet.
   ‘No, I’m afraid not. Look, children, all stay here and I’ll take Alfie out and find Molly.’ Another adult came into the classroom; Miss Walton said something to her about being back in a minute and then as I ran out she started to follow me. I tried to remember the way I’d come in as I legged it towards the exit. Before I left, I needed to find Molly, I’d seen her run off after all and had an idea which way she’d gone.
   ‘Alfie, slow down,’ Miss Walton said as she hurried after me. I stood in the playground, finding my bearings and sniffing the air. Like a super sleuth, I made my way round the side of the building where I had seen Molly heading following my nose, vaguely aware of Miss Walton a little way behindme. I stopped in front of a shed, noticing a door was ajar, just big enough for a small child — or a cat — to slide through. I peered in, but it was dark and cramped, full of outdoor clothes — muddy wet weather wear and Wellington boots. From the door, I couldn’t see the girl but I could sense her. Miss Walton came up behind me a little breathless.
   ‘Molly,’ she called. ‘Molly, are you in there?’ Her words were met with silence and I looked up and saw the worry etched on Miss Walton’s face as she looked around her, panic growing. I miaowed and went inside, scrambling around in the darkness, getting caught up in raincoats, and tangledin boots but determined to find Molly.
   She was hiding in a dark corner, curled up and still crying. I miaowed loudly again, running out to alert the teacher. She looked puzzled— she was running around the playground shouting Molly’s name and sounding increasingly frantic. I kept yelling at her, brushing her legs before running back to the shed. She looked uncertain as she followed me into the shed but I led her to the missing girl.
   ‘Molly, there you are,’ Miss Walton said, kindly, her eyes full of concern and voice full of relief. I quite liked this teacher; she was very warm. Molly looked up, her eyes teary and I saw her nose was bleeding. ‘Oh, Molly, what happened?’
   ‘I got hit by a bag. Ralph was trying to fight Aleksy, and it hit me.’ She burst into tears again.
   ‘Come on, we’ll get you cleaned up.’ Miss Walton pulled Molly up and, holding her hand, went back inside. Of course I followed them, even though I knew I shouldn’t, but I needed to see how this story ended.
   Miss Walton took Molly to another kind lady who said she would make her better and then she headed back to the classroom. I managed to sneak in behind her.
   ‘Oh, Alfie,’ she said as she noticed me again. ‘I forgot about you.’
   ‘Alfie!’ Aleksy cried. ‘I thought you were sending him home.’
   ‘I was, but, Aleksy, you were right, Alfie is a very special cat. He found Molly, and he’s the hero of the school today.’ All the children cheered me and I preened myself. It hadn’t been hard but then again, I wasn’t going to refuse praise. Milking it, I first went up to where Aleksy sat and jumped onto his desk. As the rest of the class crowded round him I stood on my back legs and raised my paw. ‘However, I have heard that there was an altercation in the playground which we will talk about, mark my words.’ Miss Walton looked at Ralph who turned red and looked as if he would burst into tears.
   ‘High-five,’ Aleksy said, as I sat up, tapping my paw with his hand. A trick we practised every time I saw him. I was quite an old paw at it now, in fact.
   ‘Wow, can I do that?’ another child asked. I let them all high-five me, which was tiring but it made them so happy that I couldn’t refuse. Even Ralph was moving closer, but he didn’t seem quite able to join in.
   ‘Aleksy, you know the coolest cat ever. Can I come and see him at your house, if he’s ever there?’ one child asked. As everyone made a request to hang out with Aleksy and me, I felt as if my job here was done.
   ‘But Alfie really does have to go now,’ Miss Watson said all too soon, ‘so how about we write a story about him, and his journey here? Then we can all draw pictures!’
   ‘Yeah,’ the class chorused, excitedly.
   ‘Great,’ she said. ‘Right, while I show Alfie out, yet again, you can all start thinking about the story.’ She picked me up and took me outside. When we got to the gate she put me down. ‘Bye, Alfie, nice to meet you but it’s best if you don’t make this a regular thing,’ was her parting comment.
   ‘All OK?’ Tiger said, as she came to greet me.
   ‘Mission accomplished I think, and it was incredibly easy! Aleksy is very popular now and that horrible boy isn’t going to bother him again.’ Seeing how the children had reacted to Aleksy, I was confident of that. I wished I could have been there to hear their story about me though. I would have liked that.
   Chapter Twelve
   ‘All right, I said I’d go,’ Jonathan said reluctantly, as I appeared in the kitchen. It was the day after my school adventure and he had arrived back from his work trip.
   ‘Take the plant I bought them before it dies,’ Claire snapped. She had bought it about a week after Snowball’s family moved into number 48, and as all attempts she’d made to deliver it had been in vain, she’d been watering it herself.
   I bristled, she clearly wasn’t in the best of moods.
   ‘Of course, darling. Hey, are you all right?’ His voice was tender so I knew he was as concerned as I was.
   ‘Yes, sorry I snapped. I just think those poor neighbours need warning about the horrors opposite them. I saw Vic today and he’s really got it in for them.’
   ‘OK, I’ll give it a go, wish me luck.’ He kissed his wife. ‘Alfie, come with me, you haven’t met the new neighbours yet either have you?’
   How little he knew. However, unable to resist another glimpse of Snowball, I trotted off.
   I wondered if Vic and Heather were watching as Jonathan stood on the doorstep and rang the bell. I was sure I could see a curtain twitch. Jonathan was quite insistent with the bell, and after what seemed like ages we heard footsteps coming towards us. It was the man who opened the door. Although he only opened it a fraction.
   ‘Hello?’ he said, suspiciously. What was it with these people?
   ‘Hi, I’m Jonathan, your next door neighbour. We wanted to welcome you to Edgar Road.’ The man opened the door a bit more.
   ‘Hi, I’m Tim. Sorry we haven’t introduced ourselves but it’s been pretty hectic.’ Tim sounded normal, not the way he had when I had heard him speaking to Snowball where his voice had been sad. Suddenly she appeared at his feet as the men shook hands.
   ‘Nice to meet you, Tim. Oh and this is my cat, Alfie.’
   ‘Snowball,’ he said, gesturing to her. Both men laughed awkwardly. Snowball looked at me through narrowed eyes; she clearly wasn’t over the moon to see me.
   ‘My wife, Claire, got a plant for you.’ Jonathan handed it over, looking a bit sheepish. It wasn’t very manly after all. ‘She’s been over but you must have been out.’
   ‘To be honest, we’re not home much. My wife, Karen, works shifts at the hospital and poor thing is doing killer hours at the moment. The kids have just started a new school, which, well, you know how it is.’
   ‘We don’t have children, yet.’ I marvelled at the fact Jonathan disclosed this information, he looked a bit bashful so I guessed he was surprised by his openness too.
   ‘Well take it from me, teenagers starting a new school is no fun,’ he laughed although it was edged with bitterness.
   ‘Sorry to hear that. Anyway, listen, we should grab a beer? Or maybe you and your wife would like to come over for dinner one night?’
   ‘We’d love to but to be honest at the moment things aren’t easy. Karen’s working all hours and with the kids …’
   ‘Well, when you have time the invitation’s there. Anyway, I wanted to warn you that there’s this couple over the road, Vic and Heather Goodwin. They’re Neighbourhood Watch Nazis, and they’ve got a bit of a bee in their bonnet.’ Jonathan scratched his head, awkwardly. Snowball stared at me, with beautiful but frosty eyes. I had to make myself concentrate on the conversation, she was so distracting.
   ‘Really?’
   ‘They are sort of, well, curtain-twitchers my mate Matt calls them. They think that as they haven’t met you and you didn’t come to the meeting the other night, you’re, well, you know … dodgy.’ Jonathan looked a bit red, and Snowball scowled at me. Tim bristled.
   ‘Dodgy, because we didn’t go to a meeting? Christ what kind of place is this?’
   ‘Oh, no don’t get the wrong idea! It’s just them, and I’m warning you because, well, they kind of have their binoculars trained on your house.’ He laughed again.
   ‘My God, you are kidding me.’ Tim looked across the street. I turned and could swear the curtains did in fact twitch again. ‘This is crazy. Look, we just like to keep ourselves to ourselves, so thanks for the plant but, really, I have to go.’
   ‘Please, I didn’t mean to offend you, it was just a friendly visit.’ Poor Jonathan looked confused.
   ‘Bye, Jonathan.’ Before he could say anything else, Tim closed the door.
   ‘Damn Alfie, I think I messed up.’ Jonathan looked flummoxed. ‘Claire’s going to kill me,’ he mumbled as he walked away. I stayed put, trying to figure out what went wrong.
   All of a sudden I heard raised voices, but Jonathan was already out of earshot.
   ‘I hate school, this house and this stupid place, why can’t we just go home,’ a female voice shouted — the teenage girl I thought.
   ‘Because, Daisy, you know full well what happened. We have no choice.’ It was Tim and he sounded desperate.
   ‘Yeah well that doesn’t make it any better does it,’ a surly boy’s voice chipped in.
   ‘For the love of God, I can’t do anything right and now we’ve got the neighbours on our backs,’ Tim shouted.
   ‘Can we all calm down,’ a voice obviously belonging to Karen said. ‘It’s not your dad’s fault and if we continue like this our family is going to fall apart.’ Her voice was desperate. Then I heard noisy tears, which I thought was the girl again. My head was so close to the door, I was almost in it.
   ‘Alfie!’ Snowball’s voice came from behind the door, I pricked up my ears.
   ‘Yes?’ I hoped my voice conveyed helpfulness.
   ‘Go away and leave us in peace. None of us, especially not me, need you here.’ Her voice was even more vehement than usual.
   ‘I was only trying to help,’ I said.
   ‘You can help by leaving us alone, all of you. Oh and by the way, if it was you that left me the bird the other day, you shouldn’t have bothered.’ I heard her padding away, as the other voices faded and I had no alternative but to turn around and head home.
   Whatever was going on with them, it wasn’t good, although I knew, instinctively, that they weren’t bad people or doing anything dodgy like the Goodwins thought. But I could tell they also needed help, although, boy, they weren’t making it easy, that was for sure.
   I made my way back and saw Jonathan standing, still looking confused, key in hand. I was about to run after him to follow him in when a shadow blocked my path. It was Salmon.
   ‘Oh, not you,’ I hissed.
   ‘Alfie, you really are a silly cat. Those people are bad and that white ball of fluff is no better. She’s an evil cat.’
   ‘How on earth would you know?’
   ‘My owners know, and if you know what’s good for you you’ll steer clear. They are going to be very fleeting visitors on Edgar Road, my family will see to that.’
   ‘What do you mean?’ I suddenly felt very fearful.
   ‘They rent that house and the landlord won’t put up with illegal activity.’
   ‘What illegal activity?’ My eyes widened.
   ‘We don’t know yet but rest assured we will get to the bottom of it.’
   ‘So it’s just what you guys think?’ I almost laughed.
   ‘Don’t take us seriously if you don’t want to, but mark my words, we will see this street returned to the way it should be.’
   ‘Salmon, you’re mad. You have no idea what you’re talking about.’ Salmon went to swipe me with his paw but I was too quick as I dodged out of his way. ‘I’m not going to fight you. I just think you’ve got it wrong.’
   ‘Do you now? Well just wait, and then we’ll see who is the mad cat around here.’ Salmon gave me another glare as he flicked his tail and moved aside to let me pass.
   Chapter Thirteen
   After the drama of the previous day I was happy to welcome my favourite day. Once a month, on a Sunday, all my families came together. They all brought food and the children played together. It was so much fun for me to see them all under one roof— all the people I loved. So I put my thoughts of Snowball and my altercation with Salmon aside to revel in what was important to me; love.
   Although that brought me back to Snowball. I was feeling towards her the way that I think some human men and women feel about each other. I was pretty sure that I was falling for her romantically. The way I felt when I saw her was almost electric. I felt a current running through my veins and my fur almost stood on end. And when I didn’t see her, I was consumed by thoughts of her. I had taken to pining by the loose fence panel a bit too often, desperate to catch even just a glimpse of her. I had it bad.
   When the doorbell went my fur was almost shivering with excitement as I stood ready to welcome everyone. Aleksy and Tomasz bounded in and rushed up to me, then Franceska, and Tomasz followed, carrying bags and handing over food and wine as they greeted Jonathan and Claire. I enjoyed being fussed by all of them, especially Aleksy who I was gratified to see was like his old self, with a big smile on his face and the sparkle back in his eyes. I rolled over, purred and snuggled as I enjoyed welcoming my guests in the best way ever.
   Before we could catch our breath, the doorbell went again heralding Polly, who was holding Henry’s hand, and Matt who was carrying Martha. The excitement of the children was feverish as I yet again enjoyed being cuddled and stroked. When the initial excitement died down, everyone went into the kitchen. As Tomasz and Claire sorted out the food, the back doors were opened and the children, except for Martha, headed out.
   Although Jonathan’s garden was small, there was a lawn and Aleksy had brought his football so they started chasing it around. I was about to join them, but Franceska picked me up.
   ‘You will not believe what happened,’ she said.
   ‘What?’ Jonathan asked, he had a big smile on his face as he watched the boys playing.
   ‘Alfie went to Aleksy’s school.’ The room was silent as everyone looked at me.
   ‘How on earth did he manage that?’ Matt asked, scratching his head.
   ‘We don’t know, but we think he must have found his way to our flat and followed us there.’
   ‘Good grief, Alfie, sometimes I wish you could talk because I would love to know how you do these things,’ Claire said, looking amazed. I miaowed and they laughed.
   ‘So,’ Tomasz continued. ‘You know how Aleksy was having problems with a boy at school.’
   ‘He was being bullied, Tomasz. He was very bad,’ Franceska added.
   ‘Yes, well we went to the school but without knowing the full story there was not much they could do,’ big Tomasz said.
   ‘Aleksy wouldn’t tell us what was going on,’ Franceska added.
   ‘What’s this got to do with Alfie?’ Polly asked. I miaowed again.
   ‘Well he went to Aleksy’s school, followed him to class and everyone in the class was really excited; so now he is popular and they are doing a school project with a story and drawings about Alfie! The boy leaves him alone now and tries to be his friend.’
   ‘You’re telling me that Alfie went to the school and sorted out a bully?’ Jonathan looked at me in disbelief.
   ‘Yes, he did. He really did!’ Franceska was excited.
   ‘So they’re doing a project on him?’ Matt asked, looking perplexed.
   ‘Yes, they have written a story as a class and everyone, even the bad boy, has made a painting of him.’
   I felt so emotional as I listened to Franceska explain. My plan had worked and, admittedly, I was trying very hard not to feel too smug about it. I was enjoying the praise and I was also enjoying the fact that my humans were so confused about my actions; I liked to keep them on their toes.
   ‘It’d be nice for him to go and see the paintings,’ Claire suggested, echoing my thoughts.
   ‘Why don’t we take him?’ Franceska suggested. ‘I could take him! Would you like that, Alfie?’ I purred in the affirmative.
   ‘Alfie, I do love you but you certainly do my head in at times,’ Jonathan said, which I knew was a compliment, as I jumped out of Franceska’s arms and headed outside to play football, or paw-ball more accurately.
   As Polly, Franceska and Claire cleared up after lunch, the men put on a film for the children. I padded between both rooms, keeping an eye on everyone. Martha was asleep on the sofa while the boys— adults included — watched the film. The doorbell interrupted us and Jonathan reluctantly tore himself away to answer it. Vic was on the doorstep, without Heather for once.
   ‘We have company,’ Jonathan said, gruffly before the man had a chance to speak.
   ‘I won’t stop but I need to call an emergency meeting. Tomorrow night at our house.’
   ‘What on earth for?’ Jonathan asked.
   ‘Your next door neighbours. I have Heather on watch right now.’ Jonathan looked around Vic and saw Heather behind her living room curtains with her binoculars.
   ‘She’s hardly inconspicuous,’ Jonathan said.
   ‘Well,’ Vic replied. ‘The time for that has gone. Something has happened and I can tell you it is very serious.’
   ‘What?’ Jonathan asked.
   ‘The police have been round. I’m surprised you missed it. They stayed for ages which goes to show that we’re right to be concerned. I am calling their landlords in the morning and I’ll see you tomorrow evening, seven sharp so we can discuss what we’re going to do.’ Before Jonathan couldreply again, Vic turned and walked off, leaving him standing dumbfounded on the doorstep.
   As Jonathan explained the visit to the others, I wondered what on earth the police were doing at Snowball’s house. I was sure that there was nothing bad about Snowball and her family, but it seemed as though there was no convincing the Goodwins.
   ‘The thing is that he was a bit odd when I went around,’ Jonathan said. ‘I hate to think Vic is right about anything, but I just don’t know.’
   ‘And we did send round a plant, and not a word,’ Claire replied. ‘I mean if it was me I would drop round to say thank you at least.’
   ‘They do seem to be a bit strange. I saw the kids the other day, well teenagers really,’ Polly continued. ‘But I haven’t caught a glimpse of the parents.’
   ‘Although it does sound as if the Goodwins are on a bit of a witch hunt,’ big Tomasz pointed out.
   ‘You know what they’re like. Anyway, the upshot is that whether that family are drug barons, gangsters or even just perfectly normal people, they’re making our lives a misery because we have to go to another meeting. I almost want to evict them on that basis,’ Jonathan mused.
   ‘Just don’t go,’ Franceska suggested. I loved how sensible she was but also so naive. She escaped the Goodwins when she lived here, so she had no idea how awful they were.
   ‘We can’t not go, it’s not an option,’ Matt said.
   ‘Luckily, boys, it’s your turn to go, so Jonathan and Matt, all I can say is have fun,’ Polly laughed.
   ‘And I won’t wait up,’ Claire finished with a wink.
   Chapter Fourteen
   ‘I have to warn her,’ I said to Tiger.
   ‘Oh, Alfie, if only you paid half as much attention to your real friends, rather than to someone who doesn’t seem to have a nice word for you.’
   ‘I know, but you know as well as I do what unhappiness can do. Look at how I fixed things for Aleksy. I need to do the same for Snowball, or at least try to. I’m pretty sure her family’s unhappiness is the reason she is so prickly after all. So if I can help her family, I can help her.’
   I tried to snuggle up to Tiger, but she moved away from me. She wasn’t a happy kitty. She had wanted us to go and play with the other cats but I couldn’t. After all, my neighbours were in trouble with the Goodwins and I wanted to give Snowball the chance to do something about it.
   ‘Look, Tiger, I’ll go over there, and try to get her attention then I’ll come and join the rest of you. I’m sorry but you know what I’m like and a cat’s got to do what a cat’s got to do.’ I gave her my most endearing look as she stalked off. But she looked back at me and I knew thatshe would forgive me, yet again. Eventually.
   After Tiger stalked off I made my way to Snowball’s back garden. I didn’t exactly have a plan, but I was hoping that it would come to me when I got there. Although of course I was determined not to be so stupid as to get stuck in any cupboards today. The weather was damp and threatened rain. I felt this in my back legs especially. It was funny but my injury seemed to be affected by the weather. I felt a dull ache in my leg as I prepared to gently jump over the back fence and into Snowball’s garden.
   I let my thoughts wander to earlier this morning. We had been up early and as I bounded downstairs eager for breakfast, I saw something on our doormat. I miaowed to draw Claire’s attention to it. It was a white envelope with their names written on it. Claire opened it and pulled out a card. Later when Jonathan came down, ready for work she showed him.
   ‘So they sent a thank you for the plant after all,’ he said, giving the note a quick glance.
   ‘Yes but, darling, it just says, “Thank you for the plant it was a very kind thought, from Tim, Karen, Daisy and Christopher.” Not much really.’
   ‘At least they have manners. Strange they didn’t ring the doorbell to say hello when they dropped it off though. We went to bed quite late last night, and you were up early so they must have put it through the letterbox either incredibly late or very early.’
   ‘Which is weird, Jonathan. I hate to give any credence to the Goodwins but it is strange.’
   ‘Maybe,’ Jonathan said, taking a sip of coffee and buttering a piece of toast, ‘they seem to be nocturnal. Like bats. Like Batman.’ His eyes were wide.
   ‘You’re saying Batman lives next door?’ Claire raised her eyebrows exasperated.
   ‘A whole bat family. By day they’re mild-mannered, by night they turn into bats and clean up the evil streets around Edgar Road.’
   ‘You’re as insane as the Goodwins.’
   ‘But it is a good theory for me to bring up at the meeting tonight. That will throw them off,’ he chuckled.
   ‘Almost makes me want to come along.’ Claire kissed the top of his head.
   ‘You still can you know,’ he replied.
   ‘I said almost.’
   As I jumped down onto their lawn, I stopped short; the girl, who I now believed was called Daisy, stood in the garden smoking a cigarette and looking at her mobile phone. I stood still, unsure what my next move should be, when she turned and screamed.
   ‘God, you startled me,’ she said, but didn’t sound angry. She bent down and looked at my tag. ‘Hello, Alfie. You are a very pretty cat.’ I tilted my head to one side and blinked in greeting. I would have preferred being called handsome but I would take pretty. I purred as she put out the cigarette and stroked me. Then she sat down on the back step, looking pensive. This was my chance, I thought as I rubbed up against her legs. She was wearing school uniform and as it was late morning I wondered why she wasn’t at school. I glanced through the patio doors, but the house looked deserted.
   ‘Oh boy,’ she said stroking me. ‘I wish I knew what to do.’ I nestled into her, knowing that she needed to talk and I needed to listen. ‘I’m bunking off school, which I’ve never done before. But then I was forced to leave my old school when we moved here and I’m in the middle of my exams! I mean I know what happened meant wehad to move but that doesn’t make it any easier.’ She let out a huge sigh.
   I miaowed softly, urging her to go on as she wasn’t exactly making anything clear to me.
   ‘I know I shouldn’t blame Dad, but Chris is miserable, Mum’s working herself into the ground, and it wasn’t his fault but still … we’re all suffering. How can life change so drastically, so quickly? I’ll never understand that.’
   I miaowed again, I totally understood that one. After all, I’d been there. My situation had brought me to Edgar Road, and I hadn’t wanted life to change when it did either.
   ‘I wish I could feel better about it. I just feel so angry about everything all the time.’ She pulled gently at my fur in the nicest way. Lucky Snowball I thought. ‘And so does everyone. This is one unhappy house, that’s for sure.’
   She stood up.
   ‘Anyway, Alfie, I’d better go to school before they call my parents and there’s even more shouting here.’ She started walking away, then turned around. ‘Have you met my Snowball?’ she asked.
   I miaowed. She laughed.
   ‘She’d like you. I think you’d make a really cute cat couple.’ She laughed sadly and I felt my stomach flutter. If only, I thought.
   I stared at the empty house, contemplating whether or not to go in given that the house was empty— I was a curious cat after all — when I heard a hiss behind me. Although it was aggressive, it was still music to my ears. I turned around.
   ‘Hi,’ I said.
   ‘When are you going to get the message and leave us alone?’
   ‘Where were you when I was talking to Daisy?’
   ‘You spoke to Daisy?’ Snowball looked angrier than ever as she bared her teeth.
   ‘She told me a bit about how she was forced to move here.’ I really hoped she would soften towards me as I gave her my best smile.
   ‘Yes we had to move and because of Karen’s work we ended up here. Everyone is living on a knife-edge and now the police are involved. The kids had to leave their very nice school and no one is happy about it. Including me.’ She looked horrified.
   ‘So why do you all keep to yourselves?’ I asked, my eyes like saucers as I felt desperate to know more.
   ‘Oh goodness, I have said too much. Forget I said anything and please, you need to leave us alone. We’ve had enough of people interfering in our life, causing trouble, we are better off alone. My family are good people but they have been through hell, through no fault of their own.’ She paused, then thankfully spoke again. ‘Tim has been the victim of injustice, and the rest of the family are suffering. We had to leave our old home and we need to be left alone.’
   ‘Snowball, I do understand that you might feel that way. Life hasn’t been all sardines and butterflies for me you know.’
   ‘What’s that got to do with us?’ Snowball asked.
   ‘I just want you to know I’ve been in a similar position. You don’t know my story but before I lived here I was left orphaned and they were going to put me in a shelter. I became a homeless cat and I nearly died making my way here. When I got here I finally found homes but it was awful beforethat, so you see I do know how hard life can be.’ I was desperate for her to see that I did care but it wasn’t exactly going to plan. ‘But, Snowball, I’m only trying to help. I can help you, I just know I can, I can make your family happier, by introducing them to my families. But you have to give me a chance. Daisy talked to me, why can’t you?’
   ‘I don’t think so,’ she said, quietly.
   ‘But you know we need to do something. People are talking behind your backs, the Goodwins are relentless, if only you’d let me help, I could solve this for you.’
   ‘It’s not something you, I or anyone can solve.’ She quickly switched back to being hostile just as I felt that we were getting somewhere as she flicked her tail at me, turned on her paws and had her back to me.
   ‘What happened to you all?’ I asked, softly.
   ‘I’ve said too much. Please go, give us some space. We’ll figure it out.’ Without even a backward glance she jumped through the cat flap and was gone.
   Although I was left with more questions than answers, I had made some progress. I would do exactly what I said to Snowball and I would bring our families, and therefore us, together.
   I lay on my back on a sunny patch of grass in Polly and Matt’s front garden, watching the sky and thinking. There was no sign of anyone at home but that was OK. I did quite fancy something to eat but it was more important to me to ponder on what had been happening and what I could do about it.
   As Snowball’s face popped into my head I felt giddy. Yes, she was angry but that didn’t stop her beauty shining through. I couldn’t stop thinking about her glittering eyes and that incredible white fur … I had never felt this way about another cat before, and I wasn’t sure exactly how to describe it, but all I wanted was to be close to her.
   A loud miaow jolted me out of my reverie and I rolled back onto all fours. My friend Rocky stood in front of me.
   ‘How long have you been there?’ I asked, stretching out; my back legs felt stiff and I realized I must have been sunbathing a bit longer than I thought.
   ‘Only a few minutes. You looked so content, with the biggest smile on your face.’
   ‘I was thinking of Snowball,’ I admitted. ‘You know, the white cat who’s just moved in down the street.’
   ‘I know who you mean. I bumped into her a few evenings ago, although she was pretty rude to me. I thought for a minute she was going to attack but she was just warning me not to try to talk to her.’
   ‘She can be aloof,’ I said, knowing I was trying to make excuses for her.
   ‘I think that might be your best understatement yet, Alfie. Besides, Tiger was just telling us all about her.’
   ‘What was Tiger saying?’ I narrowed my eyes.
   ‘That she’s nasty but you seem intent on sucking up to her. She’s not best pleased with your behaviour, and she’s guessed that you have a crush on her.’
   ‘Is that what this is? Tiger’s not wrong though. I can’t stop thinking about that fluffy white coat, and those eyes …’
   ‘Oh boy, you’ve got it bad, Alfie. Let me give you some advice, man to man; be careful, women are complicated. Take Tiger for example.’
   ‘Tiger? I barely think of her as a female cat.’
   ‘That’s the problem, Alfie, you two are such good friends but she is female and, well, it’s kind of difficult to be really close friends with girls. If you know what I mean.’
   ‘I absolutely don’t.’ I really didn’t get it. I was friends with Agnes, the cat from my first home, I was friends with the human women in my life, so why not Tiger?
   ‘OK, well Tiger has this little thing for you, you know, more than just friends. She has, you know, romantic feelings for you.’
   I nearly fell off my legs. I couldn’t believe what I was hearing.
   ‘There must be some mistake, Rocky, she doesn’t think of me like that.’
   ‘Well, mate, trust me she does, you just don’t notice. You should have heard her just now. She’s really jealous.’
   ‘Jealous?!’ This was all news to me.
   ‘Oh, Alfie, you silly cat. You need to be careful if you don’t want to lose Tiger as your friend.’ Rocky sat down, looking serious. ‘She won’t ruin your friendship but you need to respect her feelings, especially if you really do like Snowball.’
   ‘You’ve given me even more to think about; thank you for being a good friend. I really do care about Tiger, she is my best cat friend and I don’t want to hurt her. But I can’t stop thinking about Snowball.’ Rocky and I looked at each other, seriously.
   ‘Hey, Alfie, that’s what friends are for. I’d better go — lunch is calling.’
   We said goodbye and I suddenly felt I had the weight of the world on my shoulders. How much could my head take? Now I had even more to figure out and solve. I felt as if I might explode.
   I made my way back to my house. My cat instinct told me it would be safer to keep out of the way of anyone for now, as I made my way round the back and in through the cat flap. The house would be empty, I could find some peace and quiet and try to get things straight.
   As I stalked through the kitchen and was about to go and find my favourite corner of the sofa to snuggle on, I stopped. Because slumped on it already was Claire with Franceska, who was hugging her as she cried.
   I felt my heart sink, as I fretted for another person I loved. As one problem was solved, another presented itself. That was how it seemed to be with humans, or the ones in my life anyway.
   Chapter Fifteen
   ‘Claire, is going to be OK,’ Franceska said, stroking her hair, the way I had seen her do with her boys when they were upset. Whenever Franceska was stressed her accent was stronger and the way she spoke reminded me of when she first arrived in Edgar Road.
   I was confused and scared. When I got up this morning, Claire had seemed fine. She fed me, got ready for work and left the house at the same time as Jonathan, in a puff of smiles and kisses. But now she was wearing what looked like her bed clothes, and her face was red and puffy.
   ‘I’m sorry, Frankie but I was so sure, and then this,’ she sobbed noisily.
   ‘Claire, sweetie, you must stay calm. This doesn’t help, and I know everyone says it but you have time, it’s not a rush.’
   ‘I know, but I can’t help how I feel. I really thought I was pregnant, my period was late, I really felt it, and then today at work, I get the crushing period pains. I’m sorry, Frankie, I know I’m not being sane but I just feel as if I’m going mad.’
   ‘How long have you been trying?’
   ‘Over eight months now.’
   ‘Is nothing. It took me a year to get pregnant with Aleksy.’ Franceska was still stroking her hair, and I hung back. I didn’t want to intrude or interrupt.
   ‘Really?’ Claire looked up with teary eyes. ‘I guess I am being silly but you know, I’m nearly forty and I know that it’s not too old but I want us to be a family so much. I couldn’t believe it, after the divorce, that I got together with Jonathan and we have such an amazing life. But then I see your boys and Polly … and I really want that. I’m desperate for it.’
   ‘And you will have it, but you need to stop crying, and relax. I am sure everyone is saying it but you enjoy trying and it will happen.’
   ‘I don’t want Jonathan to see me like this. It’s not that I’m trying to hide from him but he tries so hard to protect me from feeling bad again. After I told him everything about my divorce and then my disastrous relationship with Joe, he has been so good at looking after me, and I don’t want to worry him.’
   ‘Right, then I shall make you a coffee, you will clean that face and when he comes from work you tell him you’re a bit unwell, and then rest. That way he can take care of you without the worry so much.’
   ‘Oh, Frankie, where would I be without you?’
   I decided it was time to make my presence known, so I miaowed.
   ‘Alfie, I didn’t know you were here,’ Claire said, furiously rubbing her eyes. I jumped up onto her lap and snuggled into her neck. She rubbed the top of my head, my favourite spot and then I went to say hello to Franceska.
   ‘OK, I make some drinks for us and get Alfie a snack, OK?’
   ‘Great, thank you, Frankie.’
   I almost glued myself to Franceska’s leg as she went to the kitchen. I didn’t want to take any chances when it came to getting fed, so I jumped up on the kitchen counter and pointed my nose in the direction of the cupboard where they kept the tuna. I stood on my hind legs and scratched at the cupboard door, and although I couldn’t open it, it was enough to alert Franceska as to what I wanted. I wasn’t being greedy but the emotion of the day had left me feeling hungry.
   ‘Ah, Alfie, calm down, I get you some!’ She pulled out a tin of tuna, opened it and tipped it in my bowl. She then got me some milk. I purred in thanks as I got stuck in.
   Before Franceska left she made a hot water bottle for Claire and sent her to bed. I thought about joining her but as I had so much to think about I decided to stay downstairs, and go back to my original plan of trying to get my head straight. Only now I had even more to think about, because my list was once again growing. Tiger, Snowball and her family and now Claire. There was too much going on for me to process, especially as I now had a full tummy. So with my head full of thoughts, sunlight flowing through the window, I curled up on the sofa and fell into a lovely sleep.
   I woke, it must have been hours later, because I heard Jonathan’s key in the door. I stretched my legs out sleepily and jumped off the sofa to greet him.
   ‘Hey, Alfie.’ He threw his keys onto the side table and bent down to pet me. I purred and offered him my paw for our customary high five. ‘Right, I’d better go and see our patient.’ He kicked off his shoes and ran upstairs. I followed him, running as fast as I could to keep up. He opened the bedroom door and went in, where I could see Claire sitting up in bed and reading. She looked far more composed now than the last time I saw her.
   ‘Hi, darling, are you all right?’ Jonathan went up to her and kissed her head.
   ‘Hey, I’m feeling a bit better, just really bad stomach pains, you know, time of the month.’ She smiled though and although I saw a flicker of something in Jonathan’s eyes he seemed to quickly recover.
   ‘In that case, I shall go to the gym and then on the way back pick us up a takeaway. What do you fancy?’
   ‘Thai.’ Claire grinned and I felt relieved as I jumped up onto the bed next to her. ‘I might have pains, but I’m so hungry.’
   ‘Thai it is then, my love. Right, I’d better get going.’ He kissed her again, gave me a rough head scratch and then went to get changed into his gym kit. I was satisfied that Claire was all right, or at least she was for now, I thought, as I got down from the bed and went downstairs. As I made my way out of the cat flap, I started following my sense of smell. It was time for me to go and make amends with one of the other women in my life: Tiger.
   I hadn’t had much time to think about what Rocky had said, but I decided that for now I would just ensure our friendship wasn’t damaged. I wasn’t exactly sure how to sort this situation out — I had never been in love before like this and I had never had anyone in love with me the way Rocky said Tiger was — I had to tread carefully. In the meantime I would ensure that Tiger knew she was important to me, in a friendship way of course.
   I quickly located my friend. It wasn’t hard, given that she was at home eating her supper. I put my head gently through the cat flap to see if the coast was clear. Seeing that it was, I hissed gently to her and she turned around and saw me. She must have forgotten to be cross as, for a second, she looked pleased to see me until sheremembered and scowled at me.
   ‘Can you come out here?’ I asked. I couldn’t go inside and risk seeing her family. They didn’t like other cats in their house.
   ‘I’m having my dinner. I shall come out when I’m finished,’ she said in a hoity-toity voice. I didn’t answer, but I gave her my most charming look and popped my head back out. I sat patiently by the rose bush as I waited for Tiger to appear. I knew deep down that she would take her time. And boy did she.
   ‘I’ve almost forgotten why I came here,’ I said as she appeared sometime later.
   ‘Alfie, the world doesn’t revolve around you.’
   ‘I know, I know.’ I was the sort of cat that spent most of his time worrying about others, but it wasn’t the time to point that out to Tiger. Not when she was in one of her moods. I remembered Rocky’s words and realized that perhaps I had been remiss in reading the signs. She really did seem very angry with me.
   I thought back to when I first met her. We had become firm friends and had a happy relationship. She was definitely my best cat friend and I’d do anything for her. She was protective towards me, like when she came to Aleksy’s school, she looked out for me; but things had changed slightly, and maybe I had failed to notice the shift in our relationship. I didn’t understand why she seemed so stroppy with me these days.
   ‘It’s frustrating sometimes, Alfie,’ she said, sounding sad.
   ‘But I would never do anything to upset you on purpose, you know that don’t you?’ I said, looking at her. She cocked her head to one side.
   ‘I hope so,’ she said sadly. I was none the wiser as to why she was actually upset but I was sorry that I’d made her sad.
   ‘I know, let’s go to the park and look at the moon in the water,’ I suggested in an attempt to diffuse the situation.
   ‘Wow, you must be sorry,’ she said. It was true. Tiger loved to go to the pond and stare at the moon’s reflection in the water. She put her face too close to it and it terrified me, after my near-drowning experience. So on the rare occasion I would go with her I kept well back. Now I wanted to show her how much her friendship meant to me and overcoming my fear and looking at the moon seemed appropriate.
   We walked along in silence, passing hedges and garden gates but not stopping to look at other houses. I was focusing all my attention on Tiger. When we reached the park it seemed deserted. I could hear signs of other animals but they were keeping well hidden in the darkness. We made our way to the pond and I took a deep breath, as Tiger bounded to the water’s edge and I made my way there carefully.
   ‘My favourite is the round moon,’ Tiger said as she looked at the big round ball which seemed to glimmer as it floated on the water’s surface.
   ‘It is beautiful,’ I agreed as I stood perilously close to the water’s edge and opened one eye to see the moon while keeping the other closed. I felt my legs shaking and I tried very hard to be brave but I seemed to fail.
   ‘Oh, Alfie, you’re petrified! But I appreciate you doing this for me.’ Tiger laughed kindly, and we thankfully moved away from the pond.
   ‘I’m sorry we fought,’ I said. ‘I hate it when that happens.’
   ‘I know and I get it that you’re infatuated with that white cat and her bloody family.’
   ‘I don’t meant to be,’ I offered.
   ‘You never do. But you can’t help yourself, Alfie. It’s always like you have to fix things and when there isn’t anything to fix you almost go looking for stuff.’
   ‘I do, don’t I?’
   ‘Even in the last couple of years when the families all seemed happy, you have been worrying about the children, and Polly, and of course Claire and Jonathan, it’s just what you do.’
   ‘I can’t help it, it’s as if finding Edgar Road and being given my second chance at happiness came with a need for me to help people.’ I sighed; it was tiring worrying so much but there seemed no alternative at times. Tiger sighed too.
   ‘It’s why I care about you and get mad at you all at the same time. Come on then, I guess you’re dying to tell me what happened at Snowball’s this morning.’ Tiger looked a bit embarrassed but I was happy to fill her in. It felt like safer ground.
   I couldn’t believe I had forgotten about it. It seemed so long ago and so much had happened in that time. So as we started to make our way back home, wrapped in the darkness of night, I started to tell Tiger about my encounter with Daisy and then Snowball and I felt something shifting inside. Tiger and Imight not be completely on the same page but our friendship was stronger than ever, I was sure of that.
   As we stopped outside the Goodwins’ house we couldn’t resist jumping up on their garden wall. For once Heather and Vic weren’t at the window but Salmon was. We started taunting him, safe in the knowledge that if he did try to come outside we’d be long gone by the time he made it. Tiger and I grinned at each other as Salmon snarled like a dog, flicked his tail and bared his teeth at us. We teased a while longer and then jumped down and headed home. We strolled back shoulder to shoulder and it seemed that all had been forgiven. I decided I needed to put what Rocky said about Tiger to the back of my mind. I had a list aslong as my tail of people who needed my help, and I wouldn’t rest until I’d done what I needed to do.
   Chapter Sixteen
   I spotted Polly a while before she saw me. She was on her own, walking back to the house with a couple of shopping bags, humming to herself. At the same time, I noticed the front door of Snowball’s house open a crack, and I saw my chance. I rushed forth, so when Polly reached their gate, I stood in front of her, stopping her in her tracks, in the hope of engineering a meeting. Polly bent down to pet me as the front door opened and the mother, Karen, appeared. She was wearing a pair of jeans and a shirt and she looked uncertainly around her as she made her way out of the house and up to the front gate.
   ‘Oh,’ she said startled as she spotted us. She had dark rings under her eyes and she looked a bit messy. Or not exactly well-groomed like me, anyway. I never left the house with any fur out of place. Looking my best was incredibly important to me.
   ‘Hi, I’m Polly.’ Polly adjusted her bags and held out her hand. Karen looked at it as if she had never seen a hand before in her life. She went to take it and then she burst into tears. Polly and I were both taken aback.
   ‘I’m Karen,’ she sobbed.
   ‘Hey,’ Polly said in her gentle voice that always soothed me. ‘What’s wrong?’
   ‘I can’t, I can’t talk here,’ Karen said, she looked directly across the road to Heather and Vic’s house.
   Polly nodded.‘Listen, my house is only a few doors away, and my husband has taken the kids out, so it’s empty if you fancy a cuppa?’
   ‘I really shouldn’t,’ Karen protested.
   ‘It can’t hurt can it? Karen, you clearly need some time to collect yourself. Come on.’ Polly looked determined, like a woman who wouldn’t take no for an answer. And this cat wouldn’t either, as I decided to tag along with them.
   Karen was quite a lot shorter than Polly, although most women were. She was about the same height as Franceska, her muddy blonde hair tied back in a ponytail. While Polly walked tall, holding herself with confidence and grace, Karen was walking as if she was shrinking into herself with each step. I could almost feel her weightiness; she walked as if she carried a whole other person on her back.
   I don’t think she even noticed me as I padded along a couple of steps behind them, determined not to miss this opportunity.
   Polly opened the door and silence greeted us, a rare event in Polly’s house. It made me laugh, because Polly was like an excited kid when no one else was around (apart from me), and once alone she would kick her shoes off, grab a bar of chocolate from her secret stash, put on a face pack, watch TV programmes she told me Matt hated or read her stack of magazines.Although not today of course, as Karen followed her into their small homely kitchen, and sat at the table as Polly wordlessly went to switch on the kettle.
   ‘Sorry,’ Karen started. ‘I shouldn’t be here.’
   ‘Why ever not?’ Polly asked. ‘Look, love, it’s OK to chat to me, you know.’
   ‘It’s not that, it’s just we agreed. No one else needs to know our business, not after what happened.’
   ‘OK, but if you do want to talk, I’m quite friendly.’ Polly smiled, then busied herself pouring tea before sitting opposite Karen.
   ‘Please, I can’t go into it now. But it doesn’t help thatthose people think we’re criminals.’
   ‘Oh, you must mean the Goodwins. I wouldn’t worry about them; they’re just the street busybodies.’
   ‘They keep coming round, knocking on our door, normally when I am at work but it’s driving Tim — that’s my husband — crazy. I told him that he should maybe answer the door to them, and put a stop to it, but he won’t.’
   ‘Well I guess they’re surprised that you haven’t been to one of their Neighbourhood Watch meetings,’ Polly said. ‘This is such a big street, but they kind of rule this part of it, unfortunately.’ Polly attempted a laugh, but it sounded wrong.
   ‘We couldn’t face it. Not yet, I’m not sure ever. All the questions. Tim saw them spying on us when the police came round the other day, they would want to know everything and I can’t answer those questions.’ Karen seemed slightly hysterical and I thought I understood now why Snowball wasso hostile; she obviously had a lot on her plate.
   ‘I know they are way too interested in everything that’s going on, but I guess that by ignoring them you are fuelling that curiosity,’ Polly said, tentatively.
   ‘Polly, we aren’t criminals.’
   ‘Oh no, I wasn’t implying that, love.’
   ‘We’re just a family, having a tough time and want to be left alone.’
   ‘Yet you’re sitting here with me. It can be lonely cutting yourself off — I should know, I’ve been there. We only want to help though.’
   ‘Yes.’ Karen looked as if she remembered that she was indeed doing that. I sat under the table, and listened, I didn’t want to draw attention to myself. ‘And I’m sorry, I don’t mean to be rude, it’s just that, well, I guess I’m not ready to be around people just yet. I’m so tired,working all hours, it’s not that I want to be anti-social, but we just need a bit of space.’
   ‘Hey, whatever you need.’ Polly tried to look supportive but I could see her underlying confusion. She didn’t look as if she knew what was going on and neither did I.
   ‘I had a row with my son, Christopher. He’s fourteen and so angry all the time.’
   ‘Hormonal teenager?’
   ‘Yes, but more than that. My poor children have been through so much … I really am sorry to be so weird but I just—’
   ‘Hey.’ Polly held her hands up in defeat. ‘Honestly, as long as you’re OK. And you know where I am if you ever do want to talk. I’d hate you to think we’re all like Heather and Vic.’ Polly, was full of compassion, it was one of the things all my families had in common.
   Karen stood up.‘I’m sorry again, but I really must go.’ Karen went to the front door, said a distracted goodbye and, looking around furtively, hurried off down the street.
   ‘Well for someone who has nothing to hide she sure acts like she does,’ Polly said as she picked me up and started stroking my fur. ‘I mean, Alfie, I’m sure there’s nothing criminal about them but she clearly isn’t the most normal person I’ve ever met.’ I miaowed my agreement. It seemed none of the family could give a straight answer. They all talked in riddles, never letting their guard down about whatever secret it was they were hiding. None of us had any idea what was going on.
   My only conclusion was that if they didn’t have anything to hide, they were hiding from something. Or someone. Or everyone for that matter.
   A little while later, the door opened as Polly and I sat side by side on her sofa, her flicking through magazines, me processing my thoughts. With a thundering of little feet, Henry ran in.
   ‘Mummy! We saw a rabbit, and some cows. Alfie! Hi, Alfie.’ I loved Henry’s excitement.
   ‘Where on earth did you take them?’ Polly asked, when Matt came in.
   ‘To the toy shop,’ he laughed. ‘They had a farm set and Henry spent ages playing with it, he loved it. I told him we’d get him some animals for his birthday.’
   ‘And where is my little girl?’ Polly said as Henry climbed on his mum and smothered her with cuddles.
   ‘Asleep in the pushchair. Hi, Alfie.’ Matt sat down, so we were all squished together on their sofa.
   ‘We need a bigger sofa,’ Polly observed.
   ‘Or maybe this boy could take up less room,’ he replied, tickling Henry so he giggled and wriggled.
   ‘Oh, Daddy.’ Henry laughed.
   ‘By the way, I bumped into the lady from number forty-eight today, Karen. She was upset so I invited her round and although she came she was still so secretive and basically couldn’t wait to leave. I have no idea what’s going on. I don’t think they’re a danger to the road like some think,but I agree that it is strange.’
   ‘Yeah, that’s what Jonathan said. He said they acted like everyone was out to get them.’
   ‘Actually that’s it, that’s exactly what it was like.’
   ‘But the Goodwins aren’t helping,’ Matt said. ‘They’re fixated on them; it’s like an obsession.’
   ‘Well maybe if we can get the Goodwins off their back they might start to behave a bit more normally then.’
   ‘You got any ideas how to stop Heather and Vic?’ Matt asked with a grin.
   ‘Short of locking them up, no.’ Polly laughed. ‘But remember how sad I was when I moved here. When Frankie tried to be friendly to me I pushed her away. What if it’s like that?’
   ‘Oh, darling, you weren’t well then and maybe they have their own problems, but unless they want to tell us we can’t make them.’
   ‘No, Matt, we can’t but putting the brakes on the Goodwins would be a good start.’ She looked determined.
   I miaowed loudly. Polly and I were the most in tune it seemed, at the moment anyway. She was right, if the newcomers weren’t ready to tell us what was going on, then we needed to get the Goodwins to back off and then hopefully they might feel a bit more welcome, until they were ready to open up. That was what we had to do but I had no idea how we would do it. Once again I had to put my thinking cap on and let the head scratching — although I actually did enjoy a little head scratch — ensue.
   Chapter Seventeen
   I trembled at the sight of cat carrier; normally it heralded a trip to the vet, which never ended well. It was four days after I’d met Karen, and the weekend was looming. Claire had also put my cat bed by the front door, along with a bag of cat food. My eyes widened; was I being given away? I couldn’t think of anything I had done wrong, although yesterday I had been looking through the fence at next door in the hope of seeing Snowball and I’d come nose to nose with an annoying little mouse. It had been so scared that the stupid thing ran towards me and into my garden. I was actually trying to get rid of it, but somehow — probably due to what Tiger called my inept hunting technique — the mouse had ended up inmy house. As it ran off I was going to get it but then I was distracted by a lovely smell, and forgot all about it. Instead, I’d sniffed the fresh laundry that sat in the basket waiting to be put away, before noticing that on top was my favourite — Jonathan’s favourite — cashmere jumper. Ithad seemed so delicious and was so soft that I couldn’t resist jumping on it and, before I knew it, I’d fallen asleep.
   A commotion had woken me; all hell had broken loose. Claire was screaming and standing on a chair in the kitchen. Jonathan was running around with a broom and when I emerged, they both looked at me in an accusatory way.
   ‘Did you bring a mouse in?’ Claire asked, sounding annoyed. I miaowed, realizing I’d forgotten about it. But in my defence, I then sniffed it out and chased it back into the garden. But then Jonathan picked up his jumper.
   ‘You’ve been sleeping on my best jumper!’ he shouted, clearly unhappy. ‘Look it’s covered in your fur, Alfie, how many times do I have to tell you to keep away from my cashmere?’ he stormed. Claire and he were clearly unhappy with me and now, looking at the cat carrier, it seemed they were punishing me in the worst way.
   ‘Ready for your holiday?’ she asked me, picking me up. I looked at her, head cocked to one side. ‘Remember I told you that Jon and I were going away this weekend, so you’re going to stay with Franceska and the boys.’ A feeling of relief flooded me and I breathed again. Ahh, of course! I’d forgotten. Jonathan had booked a weekend away for them, somewhere called Paris which was in a different country apparently, and they were going for three days. I would normally stay at Polly and Matt’s but this time, Franceska was going to take me to Aleksy’s school to see the Alfie project, after spending the weekend with them.
   Although I was going to stay with people I loved, I wondered how I would cope being so far from my street. I was nervous away from Edgar Road, and felt trepidation of places unknown. I had learnt that adventure wasn’t always a good thing and actually quite a lot of it for me had been bad. I shuddered and my fur stood on end as some of the memories flooded my head. As I started to scramble out of Claire’s arms and away from the cat carrier, I realized I needed to calm down, reminding myself that I had beento Franceska’s before, so it wasn’t like going to the unknown.
   I did have to give myself a talking to quite often. Memories of my journey to Edgar Road still invoked terror in me. It was sometimes hard to remember that I was safe and loved although I constantly tried to remind myself.
   ‘Don’t be such a silly cat,’ Claire said, coming towards me and stroking my fur. ‘You’re going to have so much fun, Alfie, and hopefully so will we. I’ll pick you up on Monday evening.’ She kissed the tip of my nose and put me down on the floor. Although I hated being in the cage, I knew there was no option, and the idea of a few days with Aleksy and the others couldn’t help but make me smile. And of course, I was expecting gourmet sardines from my lovely Franceska. So, as I talked myself down I remembered that I would actually have a lovely time. Yes, I would enjoy my holiday. Although I would miss trying to catch a glimpse of Snowball.
   Claire drove me to my holiday home, all the while chatting animatedly about how much she was looking forward to going away with Jonathan. Of every human I knew, I loved it that Claire still talked to me the most. I guess it was a habit she had developed when we lived together, just the two of us, before she moved in with Jonathan.
   By the time Claire found a parking space on Franceska’s road, I knew that she was hoping that this weekend, spent in a luxury hotel, would result in her being pregnant. I basked in happiness when Claire was like this — she had her dark moments, but who doesn’t? Claire’s had the potential to be worse than most though and I fervently hoped she would get what she wanted. Not only was I happy to have an addition to our family but I wanted that happiness to last. I always worried that it wouldn’t.
   Happiness was so wonderful but it could also be scarily fickle.
   HAPPY HOLIDAY ALFIE! greeted me. Aleksy had made me a banner painted in rainbow colours along with a picture of me. Aleksy looked both proud and a little shy as everyone praised his artistic talents. I miaowed and jumped up into his arms— it was our new favourite trick. Aleksy thought he’d taught me but we all know who the teacher was really.
   As everyone clapped and grinned I felt as if I had come home again. I did miss this lovely family who meant so much to me and although they had travelled further than I had to get to Edgar Road all that time ago, we still would always share that bond. They were immigrants, Tomasz used to tell me, which meant they weren’t born in this country. But they worked hard and were such good people that I knew that they actually belonged here now, with me. Or I belonged with them.
   As Claire and Franceska went to the kitchen to have a chat, Tomasz and Aleksy took me into their living room where I was presented with a lot of toys all laid out for me. It was playtime.
   After chasing fake mice, cars, and running around in circles, I collapsed on my back and let the boys tickle and fuss over me. I was tired but very happy as Claire came in to say goodbye. She gave me a huge cuddle and kiss and told me to be good— as if I would be anything but — and then she left.
   ‘Right, Alfie, is your dinner time?’ Franceska asked.
   ‘Can I feed him?’ little Tomasz asked. I followed them to the kitchen where Franceska made me a very happy cat by getting a tin of sardines out of the cupboard. I tried to be patient as Tomasz helped open the tin and with ‘careful, careful’ repeated, he tipped the sardines in my bowl.
   I eagerly got stuck in when they were finally put on the floor and Tomasz stood by proudly as I ate. My boys were growing up fast. When I first met Tomasz he was still very small, taking naps and learning to talk. Now he and Aleksy were like proper little people.
   The door flew open and I heard the booming voice of big Tomasz, their father. He came into the kitchen carrying cartons of food. Aleksy came running into the kitchen after him.
   ‘Pappa,’ little Tomasz shouted, gleefully.
   ‘Dinner,’ big Tomasz said, putting the food on the counter. He scooped up both of his children into a big hug, they all laughed. Tomasz was a big man and towered over his wife as he kissed her. ‘Ah and here is our guest. Welcome to our little home, Alfie,’ he said, picking me up and stroking me. I purred into his massive neck.
   ‘How long can you stay?’ Franceska asked.
   ‘We are fully booked tonight, so I have to go back in an hour.’
   ‘Right, better get this heated up quickly then.’ She smiled.
   ‘I’m sorry,kochanie, I will get back as early as possible.’
   ‘I know, but now it’s getting so busy, which is good, can you get more staff?’
   ‘We are trying, I promise, but it’s difficult to find good staff. I have more interviews next week, so fingers crossed.’
   ‘Good, because I love you work so hard for us but it would be nice to see you a bit more.’ Franceska smiled, though, and I knew she wasn’t really angry, I just wondered if she was a bit lonely while her husband worked so much.
   Later that afternoon, I stood by the flat door and miaowed. I wanted to go out, but there was no cat flap in the second floor flat, and although they had got me a litter tray I turned my nose up at it. I would use it in emergencies but I didn’t want to if I didn’t have to. I wasn’t that sort of cat.
   Franceska, gestured to me to follow her and she opened a back door, which I hadn’t noticed before, and she walked with me down a flight of stairs. We emerged into a small yard.
   ‘This is the back of the restaurant, I can leave the door open for you, but be quick as I don’t want any mice to get in,’ she said.
   I was pleased by this limited freedom and I found a patch of weeds to do my business in, before quickly scoping out my surroundings. There were some big bins in a small-ish yard which led to an alley. My nose was aroused, I could smell wildlife here, mice and even those horrible big rats. But then it made sense. Where there was rubbish, there was vermin. I didn’t need Franceska to tell me to be quick; I wasn’t sure I fancied hanging around here too long. Although I didn’t catch sight of anything, I knew they were lurking in the shadows waiting for scraps to feed off.
   I bounded back upstairs and Franceska went down to close the door. She looked relieved when we were back inside.
   ‘I just don’t want any of those mice or rats coming in here,’ she said, as Aleksy and Tomasz sat on the sofa, in their pyjamas, watching television. ‘Hazard of living above a restaurant,’ she explained. I tilted my head in sympathy. It wasn’t nice. And of course although I could see offa few mice, I tended to avoid rats, some of whom seemed almost as big as me.
   ‘But what about Dustbin?’ Aleksy said.
   ‘Oh yes, he is very good at catching them, but they still seem to come back.’ I miaowed, wanting them to tell me who Dustbin was. They looked at me and laughed.
   ‘Dustbin is a cat who lives by the dustbins. I’m surprised you didn’t see him just then. He gets fed by the restaurant and he chases off the mice and rats. He’s a big cat.’
   ‘He is much bigger than you, Alfie, and he never goes inside, ever,’ Aleksy explained.
   I was curious and wondered if I would meet this cat while I was staying.
   ‘He smells funny,’ Tomasz piped up. ‘And his fur is very messy, not like yours.’ I was a silver/grey coloured cat, with a tinge of blue in my fur, my eyes were shiny and healthy and my perfectly round face was proportionate to my slender body.
   ‘Yes, it is true he is not as good-looking as Alfie,’ Franceska concurred. My fur gleamed in pride. ‘But he is a good cat nonetheless and we don’t need to be mean about him.’
   ‘Oh no, Mamma, I like him,’ Tomasz added, giggling. ‘He’s not a house cat like Alfie but he is a cat.’
   ‘Of course he’s a cat, dummy, you get different kinds of cats,’ Aleksy said. I smiled through my whiskers. Aleksy was right, you get different kinds of cats and different kinds of people. It was how the world worked.
   Later that night I woke, briefly wondering where I was. I knew I was in my bed, but, as I blinked through the darkness I could see two beds, one with Aleksy sleeping, his covers all thrown off him and a leg hanging over the side, and Tomasz, still fully tucked in. Franceska had talked about how Aleksy loved school again now since the bullying incident which seemed to be firmly behind him. And she credited me with being the one who saved the day. I smiled as I remembered that I was on something called a‘holiday’ with some of my favourite people, so I settled back down and managed to drift back to sleep. After all, holidays were for taking it easy, and I intended to do just that.
   Chapter Eighteen
   I had developed a compulsive need to meet this cat called Dustbin, due to the fact that he was obviously part of my Polish family’s life. I was let out into the back yard after breakfast but there was no sign of him, just a few dirty mice scratching around. They looked startled to see me but I wasn’t interested in them, having enjoyed a hearty breakfast. I could see a way out of the yard, which seemed to lead to an alleyway but I was reluctant to explore the unknown territory. I returned with my curiosity far from sated as we spent the morning at home in the flat. Big Tomasz had the morning off, and while Franceska went to the shops, us boys played video games. I tried to join in, watching a bird flying around on screen which I tried to follow with my paw, but I lost my normally incredible balance and fell off the TV stand. The boys shrieked with laughter. Slightly humiliated I then tried to see if I could use the controllers they were holding onto but they kept swerving them out of my grasp. In the end I gave up and became a spectator.
   ‘Alfie, we are going to take Aleksy to football this afternoon,’ big Tomasz said, as Franceska returned and called the boys in for lunch. I joined them, although I wasn’t expecting any food, I liked being around the action.
   ‘Can Alfie come?’ Aleksy asked, excitedly, and I purred and jumped into Tomasz’s arms. I had no real idea what they meant but I wanted to go to wherever it was.
   I cried to be let out again, as the family sat down for lunch and as I stepped out the door I immediately struck gold as I met the cat that could only be Dustbin. He was a little fragrant, I have to admit (and not in a good way), and his fur stuck up in all directions; he was also huge, almost as big as a dog. As I stood stock still, unsure of the reception I could expect, he turned to me.
   ‘Hello, who are you?’ he asked, not unkindly.
   ‘I’m Alfie. I’m staying upstairs for a few days.’
   ‘Ah, with big Tomasz. I’m Dustbin. Not my real name. Not sure what my real name is to be honest. I was given this name by the family upstairs and well, it’s as good as any.’ Although he was clearly feral, he was very polite.
   ‘I’m not trying to encroach on your territory,’ I said quickly. He waved a paw at me.
   ‘Hadn’t crossed my mind and anyway I’m happy to share.’ He smiled, and I saw his teeth were pretty sharp, I was thankful that he wasn’t angry with me. Or inclined to eat me.
   ‘I live where they used to live, and my other family are away. Nice to meet you.’
   ‘Nice to meet you too, Alfie. I guess you get a bit pampered?’
   ‘I do,’ I admitted. ‘I was homeless, a street cat for a while though, and I have to say I don’t know how you do it. I like hot fires, warm laps, and food served to me in bowls.’ I smiled and Dustbin laughed.
   ‘Well it takes all sorts. I mean your life sounds pretty nice, but not for me. I like the freedom, and I have food on tap here. As long as I keep the mice and rat population down, I get fed pretty well from the restaurant too.’
   ‘But the cold?’
   ‘You get used to it. There is plenty of shelter here and I like being my own man.’
   ‘Don’t you get lonely?’ I asked.
   ‘I have friends, well, sort of. There are a group of us round here, all outdoor cats, so it’s not so bad.’ He chuckled. I couldn’t contemplate having his life, but it made me feel a bit of a pampered cat.
   ‘Alfie,’ I heard Franceska call from upstairs, before I could pursue the conversation further.
   ‘I’d better go, but I’ll be back later. It’d be nice to see you again.’
   ‘Sure, you too. See you later.’
   As I ran back upstairs I thought what a nice cat Dustbin was. A little bit wild but really very friendly. As he said, it took all sorts. Life would be pretty boring if we were all the same. That applied to humans and cats alike.
   Big Tomasz carried me to football. They were worried about losing me he said, so he tucked me neatly under his arm and we walked past the school and towards a big field. Aleksy was wearing baggy shorts and a shirt with a number on the back, and he was bouncing with excitement.
   ‘Don’t use all your energy before you get on the field,’ his dad said. Franceska laughed as she held onto little Tomasz’s hand. I was almost as excited as Aleksy, although I had no idea what to expect.
   When we reached the field, there were lots of children and adults already there, standing around. A man blew a whistle and all the children rushed onto the pitch.
   ‘Good luck, Aleksy,’ my family shouted. He turned back, smiled and waved.
   Tomasz kept hold of me which I was grateful for because there were lots of people and it was also quite cold. I snuggled into Tomasz’s jacket as the match began. I knew all about football from watching it with Jonathan and Matt, but I had never seen it played live. And I had never seen children play before. Which quickly turned out to be a good thing.
   When they started playing, it was a little bit of a mess. No one seemed to know which way to run, and although the adults were cheering and shouting, there was no clear sense to what everyone was doing. The ball flew past me as a child fell over trying to kick it. Franceska and Tomasz laughed and little Tomasz clapped his hands. Other people were shouting, and I noticed that some weren’t finding it funny, but these kids were certainly energetic even if none of them were any good at actually playing football. A whistle blew and Aleksy ran over to us with most of his team.
   ‘Aleksy,’ Tomasz admonished. ‘You are supposed to talk to your coach not come over to us.’
   ‘But, Pappa, I wanted to show Alfie to the team.’ The children, who were wearing the same shirts as Aleksy, all crowded around me and some reached to stroke me. I noticed there was boys and girls in the team, and some I recognized from my visit to the school. They seemed almost as enthusiastic about seeing me as they were about the game. As the children cooed over me, a tubby man came over to us.
   ‘Hello, Mr Armstrong,’ Franceska said.
   ‘Hi.’ He looked a bit sheepish as he interrupted the goings on, and I guessed he was in charge. ‘Come on, you lot, it’s nearly time for the second half.’ He nodded seriously at Tomasz and Franceska. ‘What are you all doing anyway?’
   ‘It’s Alfie, our cat,’ Aleksy explained. ‘He has come to see us play and is our lucky mascot.’ Aleksy puffed out his chest proudly, and I did the same. Although I didn’t seem to have proved lucky so far as no one had scored any goals.
   ‘OK, well, Alfie, perhaps you can bring us some goals in the second half,’ Mr Armstrong jested. I miaowed in response; I didn’t know how, after all it didn’t seem they were going to let me play.
   Somehow I became a hero with Aleksy’s friends yet again. I even noticed that the bully was playing and although he hung back from me, Aleksy and he seemed to be friendly as they stood side by side on the football pitch. So when Aleksy scored a goal, the crowd cheered loudly; big Tomasz jumped up with me almost flying out of his arms; Franceska squealed; little Tomasz cheered and clapped his hands; and I grinned my biggest grin. When a little girl on Aleksy’s team scored a second goal just before the final whistle went, they all ran over to me and gave me credit for the win.
   I loved being a cat sometimes; I didn’t have to do anything and yet I was always getting praised.
   On Sunday the restaurant was closed, so Tomasz took us all down there.
   ‘Alfie hasn’t seen it yet and although I know no animals are allowed, no one will know.’ He winked at Franceska.
   ‘He can go and play in the yard with Dustbin,’ she said. As they started doing stuff in the restaurant the boys came outside with me where they greeted Dustbin like an old friend, as did I. Obviously I couldn’t speak to him properly with the boys there but when they were called in to do theirhomework, we got to hang out.
   ‘So you’ve had a nice weekend?’ Dustbin asked.
   ‘Actually, I have. I went to see Aleksy play football yesterday, and tomorrow, before I go home, I’m going to the school for a visit.’
   ‘You do have an interesting life,’ he said.
   ‘Well I seem to have a few adventures. But when I was homeless I was so miserable, and I really feared for my life. Sometimes even now I wonder how I survived. I guess I’m lucky to have such caring people around me.’
   ‘You are, but then I’ve always been a street cat and I wouldn’t fare well in a home. Franceska suggested to Tomasz that they take me in but I would have hated that. Especially as it apparently involved getting me bathed and taken to a vet!’
   ‘Trust me, I’ve been through both and neither are fun,’ I replied sagely.
   ‘I’m not cut out for domesticity. I mean I like the boys well enough, but I wouldn’t want to have to play with them too often.’ He laughed. ‘I like the freedom that this life gives me.’
   ‘So it’s your choice?’ I asked.
   ‘I’m not sure I’d call it choice, exactly.’ He looked thoughtful. ‘I was born into it and I just got used to it. Tomasz keeps me well fed and I keep down the vermin around here. It’s like a job really.’
   ‘When I was homeless I saw some people who lived on the streets. But they were drunk and mean to me. I met street cats too, and some of them scared me, but one of them was really great.’
   ‘And not all people who live on the street are drunks. Remember, this world is far from perfect; yours might be but others aren’t so fortunate. I know many people who live outside because they don’t have a choice, not because they like it, and it’s very sad.’
   ‘There’s so much I don’t know about the world still, I guess,’ I admitted.
   ‘There’s so much we all don’t know, but hey, Alfie, just appreciate all you have, and take care of the people who love you.’
   ‘I will, Dustbin. I wish we had more time together but if I come back again I hope to see you.’
   ‘You too, Alfie, I might teach you effective hunting,’ he laughed.
   ‘My friend Tiger would tell you that I’m the worse hunter ever.’ I tried though, as I followed Dustbin around the yard. Unfortunately I lived up to my reputation. I swiped for one mouse who darted out of my grasp, and I spun round to find it, tripped over my tail and ended up on my bottom. Not to be deterred, I stalked another mouse, but I pounced a bit too soon and the mouse sprang out of my loose lips and bit me on the nose.
   ‘Ow,’ I cried, dropping it on its head. Dustbin was almost crying with laughter and I decided to quit while I just had a slightly sore nose and bruised pride.
   We waved our tails in a friendly goodbye and I thought what an interesting cat he was.
   Chapter Nineteen
   Today was the day that I was going to school with Aleksy. We were all incredibly excited. Apart from little Tomasz who was annoyed that I wasn’t going to his class.
   ‘It’s not fair,’ he whined.
   ‘Don’t sound like a baby, Tomasz. Your class hasn’t done an Alfie project; maybe some other time,’ Franceska chastised. Little Tomasz crossed his arms over his chest and stuck his bottom lip out. I went up to him and tickled him with my tail, which I knew would get him. He laughed and then he picked me up and gave me a cuddle. Tomasz was still only five but he was big for his age. Jonathan called him ‘a bruiser,’ which seemed to suit him.
   ‘So, if Alfie can’t come to my class then can I carry him to school?’ he asked.
   ‘OK, but I’ll bring the carrier in case you get tired,’ Franceska replied. Great, I was going to be caged again. I definitely wasn’t looking forward to that part of the day.
   But even that couldn’t dampen my spirits. I couldn’t wait to tell Tiger all about it.
   I felt a pang. I had barely given her a thought since I’d been on my holiday. I had, of course, thought a lot about Snowball; she was the last thing on my mind before I went to sleep and the first thing I thought of on waking. I felt guilty about Tiger but then what could I do? I missed everyone from Edgar Road, but I missed seeing Snowball the most.A cat I had only known for just over two months. What did that say about me?
   Once the boys were dressed in their school uniforms, I was put into the cat carrier by Aleksy. He looked as if he was beside himself with excitement as his eyes shone and he kept hopping from foot to foot.
   ‘Aleksy, I wish you were always so keen to go to school,’ Franceska teased.
   ‘Maybe I would be if Alfie came with me every day,’ he replied, cheekily. I miaowed loudly. There was no way I could go to school every day; I was far too busy.
   Excitedly, I realized that being the hero of the football match would have increased my already great popularity at school. It was lucky I wasn’t a big headed cat; I knew it was just the affection of children, and I tried not to get too proud. It really was a very nice feeling though.
   Franceska dropped Tomasz, who was carrying me, at his classroom, wrestling me from him, and we then went to Aleksy’s class, where everyone was waiting. As the children crowded round me, still in Franceska’s arms, the teacher, the pretty Miss Walton, who had gently ejected me from her classroom last time, welcomed me warmly. She put me on her desk and all the children came to see me one by one. They were all gentle, even the bully who seemed to have changed his ways.
   Eventually, everyone was told to settle down, and Franceska left the classroom. I took the opportunity for a good look around. On my first visit, I had been so preoccupied with Aleksy and the missing Molly that I hadn’t properly noticed the surroundings. A big white board was at the front of the room, and desks were lined up with bright plastic chairs. Paintings covered most of the walls and there was a book corner where there were more books than I had ever seen. At the back of the room a hamster was eyeing me suspiciously from its cage. It was a bright, colourful room and I felt pleased as punch to be there again.
   Then the children all read out parts of a story they had written about me. It was about a cat, called Alfie (naturally), who had magic powers. The cat could stop people being sad and from being hurt; basically, he could solve any school problems or home issues. When Aleksy read out his bit it said this magic cat taught children to be good children. It was actually quite an emotional story and although not all of it made sense— cats cannot fly through the air and we don’t wear capes — I felt a bit choked up by the time the story came to the end.
   I miaowed loudly to show my approval which made everyone laugh. The teacher picked me up to view the childrens’ paintings of me, which adorned the classroom wall. As I looked at them all, I admit I preened a bit. I felt very special and very lucky, and suddenly I realized how far I had come from being a homeless cat with no one to love him.
   Miss Walton carried me out to Franceska when the stories had been read and the children said a reluctant goodbye to me. I was a little hurt to be bundled, yet again, into the cat carrier.
   After being released from my jail back at the flat, it was just me and Franceska for the first time in ages. As Franceska and I shared a special bond, I was happy for our rare time together. She took her jacket off, and let me out of the carrier. I followed her into the kitchen where she put the kettle on and then put some milk in a bowl for me.
   ‘Right, Alfie, that was quite a morning and I really feel so glad that Aleksy is happy at school again thanks to you.’ She made a drink and sat at the breakfast bar in the kitchen. I jumped up onto one of the high stools to be next to her. ‘And we’ve loved having you here. I do miss you,’she said, stroking the part of my neck that I loved. I purred melodiously. ‘But you can come here anytime, you know. I know we have competition with Claire and Polly, but you will always have a home with us too.’ As she smiled and sipped her drink, she had a dreamy look in her eyes. I tilted myhead towards her, questioningly. She smiled, as if she was far away. ‘When I first met you, well we had just moved from Poland and I was terrified.’
   I miaowed to tell her that I was in the same boat.
   ‘I remember seeing you and you were such a sweet cat; we loved you from the start. And now, we’ve all had our ups and downs — we even nearly lost you! — but life is good at last. I have a nice home, my husband is successful and my boys are doing well. When we lived in Poland and were struggling to find work, I honestly never thought that we would be in such a good place. You’ve always been part of that for us.’ I miaowed again. I felt the same.
   ‘Right, well I need to clean my nice home. Do you want to keep me company?’ She got off the stool and I jumped down. I did want to keep her company and although she barely spoke for the next few hours until she had to leave to get the children from school, I felt close to her, my companion, a lovely woman who was so strong and I was so pleased to see that life had paid off for her. Actually it had paid off for both of us.
   Chapter Twenty
   By the time I got back to Claire’s, was fussed over by her and Jonathan, and had something to eat I felt it was quite late. Claire had picked me up that evening, and I had been pleased to see her but also a little bit sad at leaving Franceska and the family. Especially Aleksy. It made me feel sad, and I wished that they lived back on Edgar Road.
   But I wanted to find Tiger; I had only been away a few days but I had missed her. I wanted to hear the street gossip as well of course.
   Jonathan and Claire had clearly had a lovely time; they were both smiling and looking relaxed, so when they went to the living room to‘chill out’ after we’d all eaten, I decided to go out.
   Tiger was in her back garden, staring at the moon which had just appeared in the darkening sky. She looked like a picture, sitting up regally, neck long and tail curled about her. I felt a pang of tenderness as I observed her; I had missed my friend.
   ‘Tiger,’ I said, softly, as I approached.
   ‘Hey, Alfie, you’re back.’ She smiled and blinked in greeting.
   ‘I feel like I’ve been away for ages,’ I explained.
   ‘I know, it was weird not seeing you. But come on, let’s go for a stroll and I’ll fill you in on what happened when you were away.’
   ‘OK, lead the way.’ We walked along in silence. I didn’t want to push; conscious of how much I could upset her if I mentioned Snowball.
   ‘There was a bit of drama,’ Tiger said, eventually as we made our way down the street. I have to admit to feeling comfort from being on such familiar territory — I’d had a nice time away, but it was good to be home.
   ‘Really? What?’ I asked.
   ‘Well, I saw Snowball and she ran off as soon as she saw me, back to her house. She’s either very nervous, skittish or rude, or maybe all three.’
   ‘I think she’s trying to hide from something,’ I offered.
   ‘We know what you think, Alfie,’ Tiger sighed. I resolved to tread more carefully.
   ‘Sorry, go on.’
   ‘Well I spoke to Rocky who said that he had caught her having a fight with Tom. Rocky wasn’t sure who started it, but something happened and Rocky said he saw blood on her fur. But when he went to her to see if she was all right, she ran off and he couldn’t find her.’
   ‘I will kill that Tom. Snowball needs us to be friends with her, see,’ I said, forgetting my earlier resolve to avoid talking about her.
   ‘You can’t make people be friends with you, Alfie. And I don’t exactly know what her problem is but if she’s willing to fight Tom I’d say she’s one angry cat.’ We stopped at a spot where the reflections of the moon and one of the street lights were making patterns on the pavement. We jumped between them, watching the pools of light grow and shrink.
   ‘I’m going to see Tom and tell him to leave her alone anyway,’ I said finally. I wouldn’t have anyone, not person or cat, being bullied, and I’d had my own problems with Tom when I first moved to Edgar Road so I knew what an aggressive cat he could be.
   ‘I’ll come with you to do that, although to be fair he might have been trying to be nice to her. And in other news, Salmon has been flinging his weight around.’
   ‘Oh dear, what’s he been doing?’
   ‘Well he says that his family is very close to finding out what the Snells are hiding and even getting them removed from the street.’
   ‘No, surely not!’
   ‘No one really believes him, we think the whole family is just full of hot air. Literally in Salmon’s case.’ We both snickered.
   ‘But what are we going to do?’ I asked.
   ‘We?’ Tiger stared at me, I wasn’t sure if she was being hostile or not.
   ‘Come on, you’re my partner in crime. When I went to Aleksy’s school I couldn’t have done that without you.’
   ‘Yeah, Alfie, flattery will get you everywhere. Anyway, what are you thinking?’
   ‘I’m still a bit unsure but first of all I want to have a word with Tom and then I think we should confront Salmon.’
   ‘OK, well I can’t let you do that on your own — they’ll eat you alive. I suppose I’d better come along and help.’ Tiger didn’t look delighted exactly but she was on side for now. Tomorrow we would take on Tom and Salmon.
   After arranging to meet Tiger the following day I went home and found Claire and Jonathan, snuggled up together on the sofa. They were watching a film on the television. I stood in the doorway for a moment to observe them. They really did fit together well and I realized that everything I had been through was worth it for this. It really was. I walked in slowly and jumped up on the sofa, landing on Claire’s lap.
   ‘Oh, Alfie,’ she said, laughing. ‘Did you miss us?’
   I miaowed the affirmative. I put my paw on Jonathan’s chest so he wouldn’t feel left out.
   ‘Well nice to know that, and I’d say we missed you, but we were too busy.’ Jonathan winked at Claire as she swatted his arm.
   ‘Jonathan, pipe down!’ Claire giggled, turning red.
   ‘Honestly, I don’t think Alfie minds even if he understands.’ I looked at him, trying to convey that I understood even though I wasn’t sure I did.
   ‘I know, but I hope … well, you know what I hope. It was such a fabulous weekend, and I loved every minute. You are the perfect husband, Jon, and I only want your child so badly because I think we will be the perfect family.’
   ‘Darling, I’m not sure that there’s such a thing as a perfect family,’ Jonathan pointed out.
   ‘Maybe not, but I know it’ll be perfect to me.’ She snuggled further into her husband and I settled down on both of them, dozing and enjoying the warmth of them, as they finished watching the film.
   I was home, but then I always seemed to be home these days, no matter where I was.
   Chapter Twenty-One
   I woke, feeling refreshed until I remembered that today we had to take on Tom and Salmon.
   Claire was humming as she gave me my cat ready meal for breakfast and made coffee and toast for Jonathan. She hummed as she walked upstairs to take her shower and she wasstill humming when she came back downstairs dressed for work.
   I watched them both get ready to leave. Jonathan as usual couldn’t find his house keys — which were in the bowl by the front door where they were always kept, and Claire hurried him out of the house, still humming happily.
   I breathed in the silence of the empty house for a few minutes. I hadn’t been alone for a while and, although I loved being around people and fellow cats, it was nice to have a bit of time to myself for once. I thought about the day ahead and resolved that I would seek out Snowball later on. I needed to see her, just to get a glimpse of that beautiful white fur andto speak to her, even if she was horrible to me. I missed her. My heart started beating faster at the thought.
   I heard my cat flap bang, which was my doorbell equivalent. I went through to the kitchen and found Tiger sitting on the outside.
   ‘You could have come in,’ I said.
   ‘I wasn’t sure if the humans had left yet.’
   ‘I don’t think they’d mind if you did come in. After all, the first time I came into this house I was uninvited.’
   ‘No, but Jonathan can be a bit grumpy, so I’d rather not risk it.’
   ‘Fair enough.’ I rolled on my back for a minute, looking up at the blue sky. The sun was almost coming out and it promised to be a warm day. I hoped that it would also be a good day. After lolling in the warming sun for a few moments we set off.
   ‘Do you know where Tom will be?’ I asked, trying, and failing, to feel brave about telling him to lay off Snowball.
   ‘It’ll be fine, Alfie, I’ve got your back,’ Tiger said, as if she could read my mind.
   Tom lived in a house at the end of the street, but wasn’t there much of the time. It was a small house and he lived with a man who wasn’t as old as my Margaret had been, but he wasn’t far off.
   We decided to make our way there as a starting point and I felt braver with Tiger by my side. I’d had numerous run-ins with Tom in the early days of Edgar Road; he was a bit of a loner cat, and he seemed not to like anyone. Apparently he got that from his owner.
   It’s funny how people say that cats are like their owners — or humans as I prefer to think of them — after all, we all know who the real owners are. For example, Salmon is a busybody, just like his humans. Tom is a loner, just like his. Tiger is a bit like hers; they’re homebodies and before she became friends with me she rarely ventured far. And me, well I have so many humans that maybe I am combination of all of them, or perhaps, more accurately, they are a combination of me.
   We found Tom licking his paws in his small front yard. It was always a bit overgrown and messy; his human was lucky that he was far enough away from the Goodwins, otherwise they’d be over there leaving notes. Perhaps they already had but he just ignored them.
   ‘Hi, Tom. Are you all right?’ I asked in my friendliest voice. He stopped mid-paw and looked at us.
   ‘It isn’t often I get visitors, to what do I owe this pleasure?’ When he said ‘pleasure’ he licked his lips, as if he was about to devour us, but then he softened.
   ‘Look, Tom, we’ve got no beef with you as you know but some cat told us that you had an altercation with Snowball from number forty-eight and we just wondered what the problem was.’
   ‘So I guess Rocky spilled the beans. He’s such an interfering cat.’
   ‘Yes, well he was just concerned actually, as are we,’ I said. Tom stood in front of us now on all paws, but his stance wasn’t aggressive. I relaxed slightly, making it clear there was no confrontation here.
   ‘All right, if you must know, I was just asking her why she was so rude, and then when she was even ruder to me, things got a bit out of hand.’
   ‘What did you do?’ Tiger asked.
   ‘Look she started it. OK, so maybe I shouldn’t have stopped her but most of the cats on this street get on all right these days and I just wanted to know why she wouldn’t even say hello to me.’
   ‘Go on?’ I said.
   ‘She hissed at me, told me to go away and when I laughed at her, she swiped me with her paw. Look, she’s scratched my head.’ Tom bent his head and we could indeed see a small scratch there.
   ‘But what did you do?’ Tiger asked.
   ‘I didn’t mean to hurt her but I lost my rag, swiped at her and I caught her a bit with my paw. She was bleeding but I realized what I was doing and stopped, but before I could say I was sorry, she just ran off.’
   I was angry with Tom but also surprised to see he did look contrite.
   ‘You need to stop being aggressive,’ Tiger said to Tom, who looked even sorrier.
   ‘I know, Tiger, and I regretted my actions as soon as she ran off. I tried to find her to apologize but she’s probably refusing to leave her house.’
   ‘Just leave her alone, OK?’ I said and Tom agreed. Although I was angry with him, I could see he was sorry but that didn’t fix the problem that now Snowball would be even more solitary than ever.
   ‘OK, one down, one to go,’ I stated as we walked away from Tom. ‘Although what do you think about what Tom said?’ I asked.
   ‘I don’t think he meant to hurt her,’ Tiger said carefully. ‘I think Tom finds it hard to put his old aggressive days behind him sometimes.’
   ‘Let’s see what Salmon has to say then.’
   ‘Oh yes, and dealing with Salmon will make Tom look like a … a pussy cat!’ She laughed at her own joke. We both slowly made our way in search of Salmon. We passed some of our cat friends on the way, but we didn’t invite them along. As Tiger said, it wouldn’t do to go in heavy-handed as wewanted information from him, not to annoy or scare him off.
   As Tiger and I tried to strategize, I came up with a plan. I could charm most people and actually a fair few cats, but Salmon was more like a hostile dog refusing, steadfastly, to be nice to any of us. Not only was he a busybody but he also thought himself human and above all us cats. That was what made him so tricky to deal with.
   ‘We’ll just have to try to kill him with kindness,’ I suggested.
   ‘I get the first bit, not the second. Maybe we should have got the others to come with us and we could have pinned him down and made him talk.’
   ‘Tiger, sometimes your aggression takes me by surprise. You sound like Tom!’
   She grinned at me, she could be one feisty cat.
   We reached Salmon’s house and found him sitting staring out of the living room window, with the net curtain hanging behind him.
   ‘So what now?’ Tiger asked. I instinctively jumped up onto the windowsill in front of him, only the glass separating us. He looked a bit taken aback as I smiled, charmingly. I raised my paw and gestured to him to come outside. He scowled. I could see his whiskers twirling as he contemplated hisnext move. After a while he jumped down and disappeared.
   ‘Let’s go round the back,’ I said to Tiger and I jumped down to rejoin her.
   We ran round to the back of the house and waited by the back door.
   ‘He’s not coming,’ Tiger said, after waiting for what felt like ages, and lying down on the small but immaculate lawn that the Goodwins had. Their garden was very pleasant in fact. They had lots of flowers and attractive bushes, the perfect place for playing and chasing butterflies. It was a shame that Salmon would never let us play here.
   Tiger was rolling on the lawn and I was playing with some rather nice leaves that were swaying in the breeze, when we heard the cat flap clank and Salmon finally appeared.
   ‘Hi,’ I said, breezily. ‘How are you?’
   He narrowed his eyes at me, flicked his tail, and bared his teeth.
   ‘What on earth are you two doing here?’ he asked. Before I could reply, he continued. ‘And don’t think that I am at all happy about you jumping up at me like that.’
   ‘Sorry but we were just trying to get your attention. You see, my owners were talking about the meeting they had here the other day, you know about the bad neighbours,’ I said. Tiger started to object but I silenced her with a look.
   ‘Bad neighbours?’ Salmon gave me another suspicious look. ‘Last I heard you were all keen on them, or on that white ball of fluff anyway.’
   ‘No, not at all, well I was to be honest but I heard my owners talking about how they were definitely not good for Edgar Road.’ My plan to ingratiate myself with Salmon to get information was underway. I would have made a great spy, I thought.
   ‘Really? Well it’s about time the other residents came round to our way of thinking. I know Vic and Heather have been pretty upset by people trying to argue against us.’
   ‘Oh I think you’ll find that they’ll be with you from now on,’ I said. I hoped I didn’t sound as insincere as I felt. Tiger had turned her back, she was probably trying not to laugh.
   ‘Well that’s good.’ He still didn’t sound convinced.
   ‘But anyway, I heard that that “white ball of fluff” was horrible to you, so we thought we would come and offer support.’
   ‘Really?’
   ‘Of course,’ I said.
   ‘She hissed at me.’
   ‘She hisses at everyone.’ That much was true.
   ‘Anyway, I might as well tell you. I told the others, as we’re really close to finding out what they’re up to. The police have been round again and although they didn’t arrest anyone, it’s obvious that they’re actually a criminal gang, masquerading as a normal family.’
   ‘What?!’ I was incredulous. ‘That’s the most ridiculous thing I have ever—’ I saw Salmon’s eyes narrow at me suspiciously and I remembered my plan. ‘I mean really? It seems incredible but it would make sense,’ I quickly corrected myself.
   ‘Vic and Heather saw a film once and it was similar. They live in a middle-class street and pretend to be normal but actually they’re criminal masterminds.’
   ‘What criminal activities are they supposed to be doing?’ I was sure this was all fantasy but I couldn’t help feel intrigued.
   ‘That’s what we don’t know, but clearly the police are onto them. Although Vic says the police can be really dumb so can’t be relied on.’
   ‘So what are you guys going to do?’ I asked. Surely this was all ridiculous. The angry beautiful cat, the father who looked worried, the mum who was on the verge of breaking down, the teenage girl who confided her loneliness to me, and the surly boy — none of them seemed likely to be members of the criminal underworld.
   ‘Well, my family think it could be a number of things. It could be something called a white-collar crime, or money laundering, or forgery. They could even be jewel thieves,’ Salmon continued, excitedly, hostility forgotten. His eyes were glinting eagerly — after all, being the street’s busybody cat, he couldn’t resist a good gossip.
   ‘Wow,’ I said. ‘That’s interesting, what are they going to do?’
   ‘Oh don’t worry, Alfie, we’re onto them and on top of this. We’re going to get them removed from the street. They rent the house you know, they don’t own it, so it’s only a matter of time. And that is what I told Snowball. She’d better get used to being homeless.’
   ‘Really?’ I asked, seething inside. ‘OK, well you know where we are if you need any help. Isn’t that right, Tiger?’
   ‘Huh?’ Tiger said. She’d been sunning herself on Salmon’s lawn, and was now chasing a butterfly as we interrupted her.
   ‘I said we would help Salmon if he needs us to.’
   ‘Oh, OK?’ I realized that Tiger hadn’t even been listening. Some bodyguard she was.
   We went to play in the park as I wanted to be away from the street, so I could think. As we walked there I relayed the conversation I had just had to Tiger.
   ‘I can’t believe you didn’t listen,’ I moaned.
   ‘I got distracted by the shadows the sun cast on the lawn, it was really fun chasing them.’ At least she had the grace to sound contrite.
   ‘So what are you going to do when Salmon actually asks for our help?’ Tiger asked, after I’d explained what happened.
   ‘It won’t come to that, Tiger. The thing is that now I know what the Goodwins are up to, we know what we’re dealing with. Now all I have to do is to find out exactly what’s going on with Snowball’s family, that’s my next step.’
   ‘Great, Alfie.’ Tiger shook her head. ‘I still don’t know why you even care.’ We were lounging in a warm flower bed, swatting the odd fly that came our way.
   ‘You know me, I like everyone to be happy, cats and humans alike. It means a lot to me.’
   ‘Are you in love with her?’ she asked me seriously.
   ‘I don’t know,’ I replied, honestly.
   ‘Tell me how she makes you feel?’ she asked, suddenly getting onto all fours and looking me in the eye. I knew this was a touchy subject, but I wanted to be honest.
   ‘She’s mean to me but I still want to see her all the time. I think about her before I go to sleep and when I wake. My tummy does little flips whenever I catch a glimpse of her, I want to be near her, even if she doesn’t want to be near me. That’s pretty much it.’
   ‘Well, it definitely sounds like you’re in love with her,’ Tiger said.
   ‘How can you be so sure?’ I asked.
   ‘If you haven’t figured that out you’re not as clever as you think.’
   ‘Huh?’
   ‘I can be sure, Alfie, because that’s how I feel about you.’
   I was stunned as Tiger shot me one last glance, before running away, leaving me alone in a flower bed with a fly buzzing around my ears.
   Chapter Twenty-Two
   Well, that piece of information certainly set the cat among the pigeons. If I thought I was going to try to find Snowball after that little bombshell I was sadly mistaken. I know Tiger had been acting a little bit differently towards me lately— well, since Snowball entered the scene — and I’d been warned by others that she had feelings for me, but I valued Tiger so highly as a friend I guess I hadn’t wanted to confront any of that. And now I’d been forced to, I had no idea what to do.
   My head was reeling and I knew I wasn’t nearly sharp enough for the task. In fact, I really needed to have a bit of time to think. And of course I didn’t do great thinking on an empty stomach. Although it wasn’t yet tea time, I realized that if I caught Polly in the house I might get a snack, which would certainly help my focus.
   I let myself in through my cat flap and was delighted to see Polly in the kitchen, cooking. The children were both nearby— Henry sat in his booster seat at the table, drawing, and Martha was in her highchair eating carrots. I miaowed loudly.
   ‘Alfie!’ Henry shouted, grinning broadly. I grinned back and blinked at him. Polly petted me and then without speaking she went to the fridge and took out some milk. She poured it into a bowl and then got my special biscuits out of the cupboard and tipped some of them into another bowl. I quiteenjoyed the biscuits, they were tastier than they looked and worked well with my milk. As I finished them off, then cleaned myself and my whiskers, my mind returned to the problem of Tiger’s declaration.
   I curled myself up on the sofa in the living room as Polly put a DVD on the television for Henry. He was soon engrossed in it, whilst across the room Martha was just as engrossed as she practised her standing— she finally seemed to be getting the hang of it. Polly sank onto the sofa and I curled up on her lap. It was so comforting to be there as all manner of strange and confusing thoughts about Tiger raced through my brain.
   I knew I’d been warned that she felt romantically towards me but I’d put it to the back of my mind and I certainly hadn’t taken it seriously. I might have known but I pushed it away because I didn’t want to deal with it. Tiger was my buddy and I didn’t want anything to change that. However, feelings were already changing that. The more I thought about it the more I realized that I wasn’t sure how I was going to fix this one. It seemed to me that as soon as I thought I had one problem under control, another would present itself.
   I wished I could talk to Jonathan, because before he met Claire he had lots of women in his life. Although thinking about it, he generally got rid of them pretty quickly. Nor did they seem to be very happy about it.
   I didn’t want to get rid of Tiger, I loved having her as my friend, but I didn’t want a romantic relationship. I needed to be honest with her about how I felt, but the last thing I wanted to do was to hurt her feelings. Oh, it was such a conundrum! The only thing for it was to sleep. Polly stroked megently, talking to the children every now and then, and I could hear Henry’s laughter and Martha’s occasional tears as I drifted off.
   Polly gently moved me, waking me up. I yawned and stretched and then, miaowing my goodbyes, I made my way back to Claire and Jonathan’s. The house was empty, so I made my way to my favourite spot in the living room, where the sun streamed through the window. I rolled around in a big patch of sunlight, enjoying the warmth and the feeling of the soft carpet against my fur; it was as nice as sunbathing, but in the comfort of my own home.
   A little while later, I heard the key in the door and Claire rushed in, all smiles. I smiled and purred as we greeted each other.
   ‘Hey, Alfie, Jonathan has a work thing so I’m having a girls’ night,’ she said. I wondered if I would get to see mine and Claire’s friend Tasha.
   ‘Yes, Alfie, Tash is coming,’ Claire said as if she could read my mind, ‘as well as Polly and Franceska.’ I purred my approval. My favourite human women all under one roof. It would be a good night, even if I was the only man.
   I prepared by eating my tea and cleaning myself thoroughly so I looked my best. I sat in front of the big hall mirror, and slicked my fur down so it wasn’t sticking up. I tilted my head to check how I looked from all angles and after a while I was satisfied with my appearance. Claire approached and laughed at me.
   ‘Oh, Alfie, you are a vain little cat,’ she said. I bristled. I was certainly not vain, I just liked to make sure I looked my best at all times like any self-respecting cat. Still reeling from the accusation, I followed Claire into the kitchen where she took wine glasses out of the cupboard andput some plated nibbles on the table. She still had that glow from Paris about her and she was still singing to herself as she got ready to receive her friends.
   Franceska arrived first with a bottle tucked under her arm, so I prepared for my first lot of fussing. Tasha followed soon after, with such an enormous bunch of flowers that I could barely see her. As Claire greeted her and then ushered her into the kitchen to join Franceska, I could see her baby bump was beginning to show. I remembered Polly’s when she was pregnant with Martha; I thought she looked a bit like an egg to be honest but I understood now that when babies grew inside you they made you fat — cats and humans alike. I was quite grateful that it was a female thing.
   I curled up on Tasha’s lap as they sat around the kitchen table. I knew this wouldn’t exactly thrill Claire — she didn’t like me being to near human food, but I took a chance and luckily she didn’t say anything. Claire and Franceska sipped wine and Tasha sipped a soft drink. They were commenting on the fact that Polly still hadn’t arrived, and how it wasn’t like her to be late.
   ‘I’ll text her. Maybe the kids aren’t settling tonight?’ Franceska suggested. As she did that, Claire turned her attention to Tasha.
   ‘Are you finding work easier?’ she asked. When I first moved here Claire and Tasha worked together, but not anymore and I knew Claire missed her still.
   ‘Yes, but I wish I was back at the old place. Here they want a pound of flesh, pregnant or not. To be honest I think they’re a bit annoyed that I’m pregnant; after all I’ve only been there a year and it was a promotion,’ Tasha replied.
   ‘Are they that bad?’ Franceska asked, rejoining the conversation.
   ‘Probably not, I think I’m a bit oversensitive. It’s just that there’s a lot going on and I’m not feeling the sympathy I want,’ she said with a wry smile. They all laughed.
   ‘You mean they aren’t treating you as a delicate little flower?’ Claire teased.
   ‘Exactly.’
   The doorbell interrupted them and Claire jumped up. I waited with Tasha, being particularly comfortable, but I was as surprised as everyone else when Claire walked in with not just Polly but Karen Snell behind her.
   ‘Everyone, this is Karen,’ Polly introduced. ‘Karen, this is Claire, Franceska and Tasha.’
   ‘Hello.’ Tasha looked at her with interest as did I.
   ‘Hi.’ She looked awkward, as if she was going to turn and run away again.
   ‘Pull up a pew, Karen. Karen recently moved next door to us,’ Claire explained as Karen reluctantly took a seat. I had never seen anyone look less pleased to be there and it seemed that no one knew what to say exactly. Claire put two glasses of wine in front of Karen and Polly.
   ‘Thanks, lovely,’ Polly said.
   ‘So how do you like Edgar Road?’ Tasha asked innocently. Karen looked at her as if she was an alien.
   ‘Karen is having a bit of a time of it with some of the neighbours,’ Polly interjected. At the sound of that, Karen burst into tears.
   ‘Oh no, don’t cry!’ Claire exclaimed. Franceska pulled her chair next to Karen’s and put her arm around her.
   ‘I picked Karen up outside as she was being accosted by the Goodwins. Someone had to help her escape that terrible pair!’ Polly explained. The atmosphere had changed and it suddenly felt oppressive.
   ‘Street busybodies,’ Claire explained to Tasha.
   ‘Anyway,’ Polly continued, ‘they were threatening to call the landlord, unless Karen told them why the police were there the other day — it was all very silly but upsetting at the same time as you might imagine.’
   ‘The police?’ Franceska asked, wide-eyed.
   ‘Never mind that.’ Polly shot her a look. ‘Anyway, I’m afraid I’ve made enemies of the Goodwins now.’
   ‘We need some help though,’ Karen mumbled through her tears. She was brandishing some pieces of paper but I couldn’t see what was on them.
   ‘Why, what’s going on?’ Claire asked, full of concern. I pricked up my ears.
   ‘It’s our cat, Snowball. She’s gone missing.’ She held up a poster and I found myself looking at the love of my life. Well her picture anyway.
   Chapter Twenty-Three
   As the women mobilized to help Karen look for Snowball— who’d been missing since the fight with Tom and Salmon — I needed to see Tiger, but I was scared. I knew we still needed to have ‘the talk’, cat to cat, but now Snowball might be in danger, my priorities had shifted. I was so afraid of many things, but losing Tiger’s friendship, and losing Snowball scared me equally.
   I know that men aren’t known for being good at these things, but I vowed to do what all men and women should do when it came to such delicate matters. Instead of lying or pulling out meaningless platitudes I was going to tell the truth and speak from the heart. Because I needed her more than ever now.
   I risked meeting her family as I jumped through the cat flap, and Tiger seemed to appear almost immediately. I could hear voices from another room so I guessed I was in the clear.
   ‘Hey, what are you doing here?’ she asked.
   ‘Look, I know we need to talk, but I’ve just seen Karen Snell. She was in tears because Snowball is missing. She hasn’t been home since the altercations with Tom and Salmon.’ I sounded hysterical, I know, but I felt it too. I was so afraid for Snowball, and I understood why Karen was so inconsolable.
   ‘Alfie, do you think she might have been hurt more badly than Tom and Salmon led us to believe?’
   ‘But even Rocky said she ran off. She can’t have been hurt too badly if she could still run surely?’
   ‘OK, come on, we’ll round up the others and start a search party. Don’t worry, Alfie, we’ll find her.’ Tiger gave me a reassuring look and I knew I’d never have a better friend.
   ‘About earlier,’ I said as we walked towards Nellie’s house to get her first. Tiger was being really sweet over the missing Snowball but what if she didn’t want to ever be my friend again? I tried to tell myself not to be so dramatic, but a cat can’t change its fur.
   ‘Alfie, it’s OK. I know you don’t havethose feelings for me,’ Tiger said.
   ‘You do?’ I was taken aback.
   ‘I’m not stupid, Alfie. I’ve known you for three years; you meet white fluff-ball for a second and you’re in love. Don’t worry, I know that we’re just friends, and I know that deep down you respect my feelings but like a man, sometimes you can be a bit insensitive to them.’
   ‘Wow,’ I managed to say. Now I know why my human males said women were so much better at this stuff. It was like she could read my mind. I continued, ‘I wanted to tell you honestly how I felt. I love you, Tiger, but as a friend, and as a friend I couldn’t love you more. You’re right, it’s different with Snowball. I don’t know why, but that’s how it is.’
   ‘I know, Alfie. If you felt the same way about me it would be so easy, but you don’t and we need to move on.’
   ‘And I thought this conversation was going to be tricky,’ I said feeling bemused. I was confused again but in a different way. A good way.
   ‘I don’t want to lose you from my life, Alfie, and that means I have to accept that we are just friends and stop being so jealous of Fluff-ball.’ She looked at me but she was smiling. I purred and nuzzled.
   ‘You are so amazing, Tiger, the best friend a cat could have.’
   ‘You always say that.’
   ‘Because it’s true. Are you sure you’re OK with this?’ I was still concerned.
   ‘I will be. Alfie, I want things to go back to the way they were with us before, and if that means I have to hear about Fuzzy-kitten and her weird family then so be it.’ Tiger smiled to show me the name-calling was in good humour.
   ‘Thank you so much Tiger, you mean the world to me.’ I meant it.
   ‘Right, well come on, let’s find Snowball, and make sure she’s all right.’
   We found Nellie at the end of the street, watching the moon. While she went to find Rocky and Elvis, we started our hunt but then we bumped into Tom.
   ‘Tom, are you sure you didn’t hurt Snowball more than you said?’ I asked, angrily. I was worried now and upset, and although Tiger was being amazing I hated to think of Snowball out there, scared and hurt.
   ‘Honestly it was nothing major. She could still walk away. Why are we raking this up again, I said I was sorry.’ He looked a bit sheepish as Tiger stepped forward.
   ‘She’s gone missing,’ Tiger explained. ‘Her owner has Alfie’s families out looking for her now, but she hasn’t been home since she fought with you and argued with Salmon.’
   ‘I didn’t mean for anything bad to happen.’ Tom did look stricken, I had to admit. ‘I’ll do whatever it takes to help you find her.’
   ‘You’re the last person she’d want to see,’ I pointed out, ‘please don’t look for her. You might scare her off again.’
   ‘OK, but I really do want to help you.’
   ‘Maybe go and see what you can find out from other cats. If you hear anything, come and find one of us,’ Tiger said and we bounded off.
   We both searched well into the night, as far as the park at one end of the road, while the other cats covered the other end.
   ‘No sightings could mean that she isn’t too injured to hide,’ Tiger said.
   ‘But she’s probably hungry and scared. Do you think that maybe Salmon saying that the family were going to be hounded out, tipped her over the edge?’
   ‘Probably, I know she’s having a hard time settling in. She could have gone back to her old home,’ Tiger suggested.
   ‘I guess we need to go home and get some rest now. We can’t stay out forever.’ I was tired, cold and losing hope. I needed to regain my strength and think logically about where she could be. It was important that I had a strategy and, so far, there were no leads and I could no longer think straight. Every lamppost we passed on our way home now had pictures of Snowball on them; her beautiful face was everywhere. I had never known worry like this but I gave up and went to get some rest. Although I knew I wouldn’t properly rest until I’d found her, I curled up into my bed.
   Chapter Twenty-Four
   I slept uneasily which wasn’t a surprise. I made my way downstairs where Claire and Jonathan were already sat at the breakfast table.
   ‘Polly texted me to say she’d called in at the Snells’ and there was still no sign.’
   ‘God, I remember how worried I was when Alfie was missing, when he’d been hurt and taken to the vet’s that time.’ I shuddered as I made my presence felt. I hated hearing that word.
   ‘Oh there you are, I wonder if you’ve seen Snowball?’ He went to feed me. I miaowed to tell him I hadn’t seen her.
   ‘They’re making more posters. Polly said she would take the kids out and put them up a bit further afield. I can’t get out of work but I’ve offered for us both to help when we get back.’
   ‘OK, darling, cool. I’ll try not to be late.’
   After I’d breakfasted, groomed myself and made my way out, I saw Polly and Karen and I wanted to cry as I saw Snowball’s beautiful face smiling down at me again and wondered if I would ever see her again. You heard about cats going missing a lot and many of them were never found. Terrible things couldhappen, and it was unfortunately more common than it should be. I felt as if my heart was going to break. It seemed Karen felt the same because she stood with Polly, sobbing as Polly put her arm around her and the children looked on.
   ‘I’m sorry,’ Karen said. ‘But she’s family. Daisy adores her and we’ve had her since she was a kitten. I can’t bear to lose her after everything else we’ve lost.’
   ‘Hey, love, come on, we’ll find her. After work me, Matt, Claire and Jonathan are going to look. We’ve put these posters up everywhere and I’m sure we’ll have her home safe in no time.’ I hoped that Polly was more confident than she sounded.
   I left them, as Tim joined his wife and for the first time I saw affection pass between them. They clung to each other and when Tim suggested driving around looking for Snowball, Karen said she wanted to go with him.
   I had to find that cat. As I started walking I saw Tiger engaged in some kind of conversation with Salmon. I quickened my pace. Maybe he would know where Snowball was.
   ‘Hi, Tiger,’ I said.
   ‘Ah, here’s your partner. I’ve just discovered your ruse, Alfie,’ Salmon said unkindly.
   ‘What?’ I asked.
   ‘Sorry, Alfie, I felt I had to tell him we were just pretending to be on his side the other day, as we’re doing all we can to find Snowball.’
   ‘Oh, I’d forgotten that.’
   ‘Well who cares. The cat is done for.’
   ‘What do you mean?’ I hissed angrily.
   ‘It’s obvious. She’s been kidnapped by the criminals that the Snells are involved with. They’ve probably double-crossed them or something and so they’ve taken the cat.’
   ‘I’ve never heard such nonsense,’ Tiger said.
   ‘We’ll see,’ Salmon replied before stalking off.
   ‘Ignore him, Alfie, I’m sure she’ll be all right,’ Tiger said, trying to cheer me up. I smiled, gratefully, at her but even I was losing hope as no one had seen her. We had looked everywhere we could think of and were quickly running out of ideas.
   That evening, I felt the love in Edgar Road, for the first time in ages, as Polly, Matt, Claire and Jonathan and all the Snells came out together to look for Snowball. I had cat tears in my eyes as I saw them all working together. I had wanted to bring them together, to help them, but not at the expense of Snowball. As her face looked at me from every lamppost I tried to strengthen my resolve to find her but even I was struggling to stay positive.
   ‘I just can’t think of where else to look,’ Tim said as they all converged outside our house. My families exchanged anxious glances.
   ‘But, Dad, we can’t give up,’ Daisy said, tears streaming. Her father put his arm around her.
   ‘We’ll never give up, princess.’ He hugged her.
   ‘Hey, I know,’ Matt said, trying to sound optimistic. ‘Why don’t we try another search but this time split up? I know we’ve looked but she might have got lost and be trying to find her way back. Tim and Christopher, come with me and Jonathan and we’ll head east, you ladies go west and we’ll meet back at ours where I’ll get our babysitter to make us some hot drinks.’
   Everyone agreed but I couldn’t help but feel that it was because they didn’t know what else to do. The only silver lining, I thought glumly, was that at least we were showing the Snells what a nice street we were, with the exception of the Goodwins of course.
   ‘What now?’ Tiger asked me. The other cats were all still searching but like the humans, we were running out of places to look. I began to feel despondent but then I remembered who I was.
   ‘Remember when I went to stay at Franceska’s?’ I asked. Tiger nodded. ‘I met this outdoor cat, Dustbin, he works the yard outside big Tomasz’s restaurant, keeping it clean from vermin.’
   ‘Nice job,’ Tiger said. ‘But I don’t follow.’
   ‘He’s an expert on being outside. I know it’s a bit further but maybe he can help us find Snowball!’ I just had a feeling that he would be better at this than we were.
   ‘Alfie, it’s getting dark and it’s quite far away. Are you sure about this?’ Tiger asked. She was right, this was out of my comfort zone, and I didn’t relish the idea.
   ‘I have to find Snowball and this is the only idea I’ve got,’ I explained.
   ‘You must really love her,’ Tiger said, sounding a bit sad.
   ‘I’d do the same for you,’ I replied and I meant it. I loved her in a different way but I would.
   ‘I know, come on, let’s find this Dustbin.’
   We walked as briskly as we could, with an urgency that we didn’t feel the last time we came here, and also with more confidence. We both knew we could find our way back easily. The only difficult part was when we got to the restaurant finding our way out the back, after all I had only been through the flat before. But we found an alley and after a couple ofwrong turns we found the yard.
   ‘Dustbin,’ I called. A head emerged from under a bin. He had clearly been having his dinner.
   ‘Alfie? Is that you?’ He crawled out.
   ‘Hi, yes, and this is my friend Tiger. Dustbin, we really need your help.’ I noticed Tiger looking a bit scared as I filled him in. She was a brave cat but she had never had to rough it like this in her life. Not like me. Or Dustbin.
   I realized quickly that I had done exactly the right thing as Dustbin seemed to round up quite a few dirty, feral cats who looked terrifying but were all incredibly kind and willing to help. I described Snowball to them— cats don’t need missing posters I can tell you — and I even managed to explain how she smelt, although Tiger said I went too far when I went on about garden roses, fresh dew on grass, and summer breezes. You can’t help being in love I tried to tell her as the other cats laughed at us. Tiger then shot out a more practical description, also saying that Snowball might not be overjoyed or even remotely friendly if found. She made a good point.
   Dustbin said we had to wait for them in the yard, which horrified Tiger; and when they left, I could see she was more nervous than I was.
   ‘What was that?’ she said, jumping.
   ‘Your shadow.’ I rolled my eyes and flicked my tail. I had been homeless of course, for a short time, and although I hated to be reminded of those days, I knew this yard and it didn’t scare me. I was glad the mice and rats were keeping away from us though as we settled down to wait.
   I was fighting sleep, but Tiger’s jitters kept me awake. She was tougher than me normally but I had found her Achilles paw. It was dawn by the time Dustbin returned with one of his friends and by some miracle they had Snowball with them. At first I wondered if I was so exhausted I was seeing things but as they approached, I saw it was definitely her and I wanted to leap for joy.
   ‘You did right coming to get me,’ Dustbin said. I looked at Snowball, who didn’t look well. She was thin, as if she hadn’t eaten for the whole time she’d been missing — coming up to four days — and she wasn’t very white anymore. But still the sight of her made my heart beat that bitfaster, although I was also full of anxiety at the state she was in. Would she be all right?
   ‘Dustbin … how?’ I was almost lost for words.
   ‘Word got out very quickly, and she was found about two miles north of Edgar Road. She’d got lost, and was hiding out in a park, but near a big estate, so it was fraught with danger. It was lucky one of my mates remembered seeing her and found her when he did, he called me and we managed to gether back to you.’ Dustbin looked proud and I went over and thanked him by nuzzling him, although he was filthy.
   ‘Dustbin, I don’t know how to thank you,’ I said.
   ‘No worries, Alfie, happy to help. But she doesn’t look too good. How are you going to get her back to Edgar Road?’
   ‘I’m not sure.’ I couldn’t quite believe they’d found her so quickly, I certainly hadn’t got a clue how to get her home. She didn’t look as if she would be able to walk.
   ‘Franceska and Tomasz?’ I said. It was almost morning, but I would have to wait until they got up. ‘But how can I get their attention?’ I said.
   ‘Ah, well, you might be in luck. Franceska comes down here every morning to clean the restaurant, she does it before the boys get up.’
   ‘Thank goodness.’ I was relieved, and Tiger looked as if she could finally relax.
   ‘And until then, we need to all snuggle up to keep warm.’
   Tiger looked horrified at the idea but she moved close to me. Snowball still hadn’t spoken and she looked as if she was in shock as she lay down next to Dustbin, I snuggled up to her other side, so she would be warm between us, and because I wanted to be close to her as the relief of finding her was seeping in. I hoped she wasn’t too ill, but I couldn’t be sure, as we allfell into an uneasy sleep.
   ‘What on earth?’ I heard Franceska shout, which woke us with a start. She ran back upstairs and came down again with big Tomasz, who was wearing his pyjamas.
   ‘Alfie?’ he said.
   ‘Yes is Alfie, but with the cat who went missing and this cat from his street also.’ Franceska obviously recognized Tiger. ‘And Dustbin. What is going on?’ We all miaowed in chorus, apart from Snowball who was still silent.
   ‘The cat looks sick.’ Tomasz picked Snowball up and she lifted her head and looked at him, which gave us all hope.
   ‘But what are they doing here?’ Franceska asked.
   ‘No idea, but we need to get them home. You stay with the boys, I’ll get dressed and then drive them back.’
   ‘But we don’t have cat carriers.’
   ‘Kochanie, we don’t have time to worry about that.’
   Tomasz placed us in the car, all on the back seat. Snowball had managed to say thank you to Dustbin before we left and then she said the same to me and Tiger. It was the sweetest sound ever to my ears, like flapping butterfly wings. I tried to enjoy the journey but I was too full of emotion. We had done it, or Dustbin had; my plan had worked out. It was amazing and I couldn’t wait to get home, so that Snowball could get better. I had a horrid feeling that she was going to have to visit the vet though.
   Tomasz pulled up outside Jonathan and Claire’s house, and rang the bell. He was carrying Snowball and I was at his feet. Tiger bade us goodbye and went home to eat, sleep and get clean, something I was also desperate to do. Finally Jonathan appeared, looking grumpy and wearing his dressing gown.
   ‘What on earth are you doing here, Tomasz?’ he asked before he saw that Snowball was in his arms. ‘You found Snowball? How on earth?’ He looked at me.
   ‘I have no idea, Jonathan. I found Alfie, with the missing cat, in the yard behind the restaurant, along with the restaurant cat.’
   ‘I don’t understand,’ Jonathan said.
   ‘I don’t either,’ Tomasz concurred. ‘It seems that Alfie strikes again.’
   Claire appeared and took in the scene.‘What’s going on?’
   ‘He’s got Snowball! It seems that, yet again, Alfie is somehow linked to a success story and we will never know what happened.’ Jonathan stood aside as if to let Tomasz in.
   ‘She is not good, I think we need to get her home now,’ Tomasz said, staying on the doorstep.
   ‘Oh, I’ll come round with you,’ Jonathan offered.
   The Snells cried tears of joy when they saw Snowball, but the celebration was short-lived as they noticed how unwell she seemed.
   ‘Do you need a lift to the vet?’ Tomasz asked, introducing himself.
   ‘No, we can’t thank you enough for bringing her back but we’ll take it from here.’ As the Snells shut the door, Jonathan and Tomasz exchanged a glance; it seemed as if the Snells were keen to get rid of them and me.
   ‘They seem a bit strange,’ Tomasz said. ‘They didn’t even ask me where the cat was found or anything.’
   ‘I know, and I thought we all bonded yesterday when we were looking for her. I mean they didn’t tell us their life story but they joined us for tea and cake, and although they were upset they were friendly then.’
   Both men shrugged and I wondered what this meant. Would the Snells return to their old ways or were they going to continue being part of the street? I fervently hoped it was the former but I was afraid it was the latter.
   Chapter Twenty-Five
   I was more determined than ever to come up with a plan to help Snowball and her family. As I feared, the Snells had retreated to their old ways since Snowball’s return a few days ago. They had come to see Jonathan to tell him that Snowball was fine; she had been just a bit dehydrated. The vet had given her some medicine and the all clear, and they had thanked us, and finally even asked where she was found. That was the last we’d seen of them.
   Desperate to see Snowball, I had taken to hanging out by the loose fence panel and I had been rewarded with her finding me there three days after her rescue.
   ‘Are you all right?’ I asked her.
   ‘I am now, thank you. And thank you for your efforts to find me.’ She sounded formal for someone whose life I’d practically saved.
   ‘We all did. The cats on Edgar Road and my friend Dustbin all rallied. Even Tom who is sorry he hurt you. But why did you run off?’ I asked.
   ‘I’d had enough. My family were falling apart, Tom and Salmon were mean and I thought if I was going to be homeless anyway I might as well make a head start. By the time I’d cooled off and wanted to come home I had no idea where I was until that cat found me.’
   ‘I remember how scary it can be out on the streets,’ I said.
   ‘Well thank you again, Alfie, and you might be pleased to know my family are stronger now. While I was missing, they remembered how much they loved each other, so they are getting along much better. At least one good thing came out of it.’
   ‘I’m so glad; now if only we could all be friends—’
   ‘Don’t get ahead of yourself. We still need our privacy, they still have too much going on to cope with and, speaking of that, I’m afraid Tim is fixing the fence today. When he saw how loose this panel was, which I may have helped him discover, he decided to do some work out here. Thanks for finding me, but now you can leave us alone again.’
   That was over a week ago and I hadn’t even so much as caught a glimpse of Snowball since. The loose fence panel had been fixed, and so my days of looking from my garden into the Snells’ were over. After all I’d done for her, I was hurt. But then I realized I couldn’t give up.
   I decided it was time to go and see Snowball to find out once and for all what was going on with her family. I had to try to get to the bottom of it. I was prepared to be brave and go inside the house if I needed to; after all, I knew the layout and this time I would make sure I avoided getting stuck in cupboards.
   I was still feeling quite pleased with myself as I made my way next door, going over the fence rather than round the front. I surveyed the place from the top of the fence, but couldn’t see anything, so I jumped down into the garden. It was deserted, I could tell by just sniffing the air. I went over to look through the patio doors. Whilst the Snells kept the front of the house in darkness most of the time, I could see into the back, and as I looked through the patio doors, trying not to concentrate too much on my own reflection, I could see the kitchen was empty. I decided to take my chance as I hopped through the cat flap. The kitchen was definitely empty, not tidy though, as dishes littered the side and there was a lot of clearing up to be done. Being such a clean cat this made me bristle but I tried not to mind too much. Snowball’s bowls on the floor had half-eaten food and a small amount of water. As tempted as I was to help myself, I didn’t touch them as I knew that would definitely upset her. And of course I was glad she was well enough to eat again.
   I padded through the hall and into the living room, which was much like ours at home, although, again, not as tidy. Evidence of life could be seen in the creases on the cushions, and I spied some bits of white fur on the sofa. I couldn’t resist having a sniff, making me feel closer to the object of my affections. As always, the front curtains were drawn. I reluctantly went back into the hallway and stood at the bottom of the staircase. I was so tempted to go upstairs, to see what was there, but then I heard movement coming from the kitchen. I froze. Was I about to be discovered? I looked for somewhere to hide but there was nowhere, and so I stood rooted to the spot as a figure appeared. It was Christopher, the boy that they talked about. He started as he saw me and then smiled.
   ‘Snowball won’t be happy to find another cat in the house,’ he said. ‘Unless of course you’re her friend? Do cats have friends?’ He bent down to stroke me and read my collar. ‘Oh you’re the cat who helped find her. Nice one.’
   I miaowed, trying to answer him, but he didn’t seem to hear me. He threw a backpack on the floor and went into the living room. As he slumped on the sofa, I wondered what I should do. I mean here was an opportunity for me to get a bit more information, but I also didn’t know what Snowball would say if she came home and found me talking to another of her humans. But the temptation was too great and, yet again, trying not to think too much about consequences, I hopped up on the sofa and sat with Christopher.
   ‘I shouldn’t be here,’ he said, looking at me, darkness clouded his eyes. ‘I should be in school. There’s going to be loads of crap when Mum and Dad find out, and we’re all getting on better so I don’t want to hurt them anymore.’ He sounded sad and a bit angry. ‘Luckily they’re both out. Mum at work as always and Dad’s out trying to find a new job, and isn’t having much luck. It’s all so bad here no wonder Snowball ran away.’ I purred my agreement, although I didn’t exactly understand.
   ‘That’s the thing,’ he continued. ‘I have no one to talk to. My old friends all managed to forget me instantly, and I hate my new school. Daisy is so self-obsessed she barely notices I’m here, same with the parents, and even the cat doesn’t want to listen to me — Snowball is Daisy’scat so she doesn’t pay much attention to me.’
   I miaowed again, to tell him I at least wanted to listen.
   ‘I understand now why my parents are so damn paranoid after everything that happened. People suck. My mates on Facebook ignore me, or post that my dad is a criminal, which isn’t true. They post up pictures of parties I’m not invited to, holidays we can’t afford to go on and, well, when I message them they never reply.’
   I had no idea what this Facebook was but I got the gist. He had lost his friends when he moved, just like I had. I nuzzled him. Life was hard when you felt alone and I knew all about that.
   ‘Although when Snowball was missing the neighbours who helped seemed nice but now, Mum and Dad have gone back to ignoring everyone.’ He sighed. I purred to try to say I wished they would be friends with everyone.
   ‘If only he hadn’t done that to Dad. We have to put up with the police coming round, although I know they are trying to help but it doesn’t help when the neighbours are gossiping about us. None of this was our fault. None of it was Dad’s fault although I don’t tell him that enough.’
   I held my breath; who did‘he’ mean and what had he done? Was I finally going to find out what had happened to the Snells. A loud and unhappy noise interrupted us. I turned and looked; Snowball was sitting in front of the sofa and she was not happy. I didn’t hear her come in so had no idea how much of that she had heard. She hissed at me and Christopher laughed. I was so happy to see her that I didn’t care about her anger, and I was also pleased to see she looked back to her normal beautiful self.
   ‘For God’s sake, Snowball! Alfie rescued you.’ Snowball hissed again. I didn’t know what to do as I looked from Christopher to my one true love. I was still enamoured with her but her timing sucked — I had to admit — just as I was getting to the bottom of things.
   ‘All right, keep your fur on,’ he said at last, as he picked me up. ‘Sorry, Alfie, looks like you’re going to have to leave. Apparently there’s only room for one cat in this house.’ He smiled at me as he opened the front door and gently set me down outside. My last view before the door closed on me was of Snowball’s thunderous face as she glared at me.
   Well, that didn’t go exactly to plan.
   When I got home, I crawled into my bed. Life was complex for humans and cats alike, although I was quickly realizing that it was relationships that caused most complexities in life. I thought about it, how others affect you, the impact they have on your life, both good and bad. I knew that my skill was bringing people together and I was determined that, despite resistance, I would continue to do this. Relationships were worth it in the long run even if they caused heartache along the way, I thought as I drifted off into an uneasy sleep.
   Chapter Twenty-Six
   ‘Why do I have to do everything?’ Claire’s shrill voice shattered my sleep. I stood up, stretched, and shook the sleep off me, before I ventured downstairs. Claire rarely shouted and I was unused to it. I found her and Jonathan in the kitchen; she looked incensed and he looked slightly scared.
   ‘I’m sorry, but I didn’t know you wanted me to go to the supermarket on my way home from work.’
   ‘Because you never bloody ask! You just expect food to magically appear in the house, despite knowing that I work hard too. I might not earn as much as you but I still contribute to this household,’ Claire thundered.
   ‘Darling, I know, and I would never suggest otherwise. Listen, give me a list and I’ll go shopping right now.’ Jonathan looked startled, like a cat caught in the headlights.
   ‘Yes, of course you’ll go now when I’ve had to shout and scream at you. Forget it, get your own dinner. I’m going for a walk.’ The front door shook as Claire slammed it. Jonathan looked at me.
   ‘No idea what’s got into her, mate, but I’m not keen.’ I miaowed. I wasn’t keen either, this was not like my Claire, who never shouted. I was unsure if I should be worried but I was pretty sure I should be.
   While Claire stormed off, Jonathan fed me, before sitting at the table and scratching his head a bit more. After an hour Claire returned and he apologized, although I was pretty sure he had no idea what he was actually sorry for. He poured her a glass of wine and after they talked things through, they made up and she eventually forgave him. It was all so strange.
   Meanwhile, while they went to bed quite happy, I went to bed worrying about Snowball. I wasn’t sure why she was so angry with me. I had helped save her, and then gone to see if she was all right, yet I was being made to feel as if I was in the wrong. It was as if she would never forgive me, not for all the saucers of milk in Edgar Road, although I was only trying to be caring. It was soconfusing.
   After a fretful sleep I decided that I would take a leaf out of Jonathan’s book and apologize even though I hadn’t technically done anything bad. I thought about taking Snowball a gift but I didn’t want to overdo it. It was easy for me to get a mouse or bird for her — or more accurately, to ask Tiger to get me one as she was the better hunter — but what I needed to do was issue a heartfelt apology to her and hope that she would forgive me. I was pretty sure she wasn’t as easy to get round as Claire though; Claire was a lovely pushover when it came to me or Jonathan, but Snowball clearly wasn’t that easy to impress.
   Decision made, I didn’t want to dilly-dally. I ate my breakfast quickly, but took some time cleaning myself, determined to look my best. I quickly made my way to the Snells’ back garden next door and hid behind a bush. I sat and waited, as I watched the kitchen scene unfold. It was familiar in a way.
   Tim was dishing out breakfast. Daisy was looking at her phone as she ate toast. Christopher looked even more unhappy than he did the previous day, and Karen was drinking a cup of coffee. No one seemed to be speaking. I caught a glimpse of Snowball at her bowl, eating her breakfast, looking happier than when I last saw her, and I bided my time.
   Finally, Tim cleared the dishes, Karen left the room and Daisy and Christopher followed shortly after. I guessed they were going to school. Tim loaded the dishwasher and Snowball came outside.
   I slid out from my hiding place.
   ‘You!’ she exclaimed.
   ‘Listen, I’ve come to apologize. I’m sorry that I was in your house yesterday but I’d only come to find you, to check you were all right. I didn’t expect Christopher to talk to me.’
   ‘What did he say?’ Her eyes were narrowed.
   ‘Just that someone did something to his dad, someone who he thought was a friend. He didn’t say what.’
   ‘Good. That is more than you need to know.’ Her tail twitched from side to side angrily.
   ‘Snowball, there is something going on, and I know it’s something bad and sometimes it helps to share. I’ve solved my fair share of problems in my time, both for cats and for humans, and I’m not bad at it, if I do say so myself.’
   ‘Even you can’t fix this,’ she said.
   ‘But I could try,’ I pushed.
   ‘What is it with you? Why won’t you just leave us well alone? We don’t need you or your help.’
   ‘OK, fine. But can I ask you one thing? Snowball, if I tell you my story, how I came to live next door, and the people in my life then will you agree to listen? And after that if you want me to leave you alone then I will.’
   She narrowed her eyes at me again. They really were like glittering sapphires.
   ‘So if I listen to your life story you’ll go away?’
   ‘If you want me to.’
   ‘Oh, I’m pretty sure I will. But do carry on. And I’ll try not to fall asleep.’
   This was one tough cat to win over, but then I loved a challenge.
   ‘You see I am a doorstep cat. Before you moved in I was considering adding the new family here to my list of families I stay with, but of course they already had you.’ I tried to sound my most charming as I told her the story. Of my first owner Margaret, of being homeless, of the cats who helped me on my way, and those who tried to hurt me. I told her of reaching Edgar Road, my journey, how I met my families, helped them and brought people together. I left out no detail as I filled her in on my story.
   ‘So you see, I am actually a fairly resourceful cat,’ I said.
   ‘Is everything you’ve told me true?’ she asked.
   ‘Absolutely. I do not tell lies.’ I was slightly affronted, although I realized I had told her a lot of stories in one go. I sat upright, my tail curled around my body, trying to work out what she thought of it all.
   ‘Well it’s quite an adventure. And yes you have obviously proved yourself very helpful to those people but I don’t see how that applies to us.’
   ‘Can’t you see that if I know what’s wrong for your family I can help you guys too?’
   ‘No, you can’t.’
   ‘How do you know?’
   ‘I just know. Alfie, listen to me. I’m sure you are a very nice cat. Perhaps in other circumstances we could have been friends even. But now, this is not the time. My family is literally falling apart. They are only together now because of misery and the misery isn’t going anywhere. Just as Ithink things will get better, they get worse again. It’s all horrible and we are all tormented. I think that if there was something to be done I would have done it by now.’
   ‘Yes but if I knew … I might have a new perspective.’
   ‘Your life has been amazing, you’re right, but it’s nothing like mine. And you might have helped others but you can’t help us.’
   ‘But I’m sure I can.’ I was confident.
   ‘Alfie, you said that all I had to do was to listen to your story.’
   ‘I did,’ I admitted.
   ‘And if I still wanted you to keep away you would?’
   ‘I said that too.’
   ‘Well I want you to keep away. From me, from my family and especially from Christopher.’
   ‘But do you really?’ I asked, clinging on to my fast-evaporating hope.
   ‘I absolutely do. Goodbye.’ She was beating her tail from side to side, and as I looked at her I knew I’d failed.
   She disappeared back into her house, her white fur gleaming in the sunlight, and I realized that for once I had overestimated my abilities. I made my way home, slowly, bereft at the idea that I had failed and might never be friends with her, and terrified at the thought that I would only be able to see her from afar and never hear her voice again. I was flooded with disappointment that her family wouldn’t be part of our lives, and I felt like a failure as a doorstep cat. A failure at everything. I felt the weight of the world settle on me as I made my way home.
   Chapter Twenty-Seven
   ‘I’m worried about Alfie,’ I heard Claire say but I didn’t lift my head up.
   ‘Why?’ Jonathan asked. ‘He looks all right to me.’
   ‘You never notice anything,’ Claire snapped. She was still in a bit of a mood it seemed. ‘He’s barely eaten the last few days. I even had to throw away salmon yesterday.’
   ‘Really?’ Jonathan started to pay attention.
   ‘Yes, really. Do you think he’s ill? He’s been in his bed much more than usual and has hardly been out. Or he stares out of the window if he’s not in bed. I’m really worried, Jon.’
   They should be worried. There was definitely something going on with me. Since Snowball had banished me from her life, I had barely been able to eat and I had no interest in anything, not even seeing Tiger. I had hardly set foot outside the house, and had only done so when I absolutely had to. Tiger had been waiting for me outside my back door, wanting to go and play, and I told her I was feeling unwell, an excuse she reluctantly accepted. The thing was that I actually did feel terrible. I was quite out of sorts. Claire was right, it wasn’t like me not to tuck into my food but my appetite wasall but gone. I felt like staring into space, had no energy for my usual sports, and all I wanted to do was to curl up in my cat bed, or stare out of the window into nothingness. I didn’t feel ill exactly but I certainly didn’t feel like myself. And I didn’t understand what was wrong with me.
   ‘Shall we take him to the vet?’ Jonathan suggested. I wanted to yelp my objection but I didn’t even have the energy for that.
   ‘Yeah, if he doesn’t perk up by tomorrow I’ll take him in. But Jonathan, it’s as if he’s depressed or something.’
   ‘Do cats get depressed?’ Jonathan asked.
   ‘I don’t know, but he seems almost like I was when I first moved here. All mopey and lethargic.’
   ‘Blimey, a depressed cat, who’d have thought it. Of course he might just be lovesick.’
   ‘Do you think cats can be lovesick?’ Claire asked. Jonathan shrugged and they turned and walked away from me.
   But that was it. I was lovesick. Jonathan had hit the nail on the head.
   I felt lethargic, sad, and mournful. I knew I was just feeling sorry for myself but being in love, being rejected, does make one a bit self-indulgent, I guess. When Snowball sent me away, I felt as if I’d lost her forever. Not that I ever had her in the first place, but I felt as if I’d lost hope of her ever being mine. And I was the sort of cat that never lost hope.
   I pricked up my ears. Claire was still talking about the vet, of which I am definitely not a fan. They prod and poke around where they’re not wanted and yes, perhaps they did some good too, but I had them down as people to visit only when necessary. I had far too much on my plate to spend time in the vet’s, especially as I now knew that my supposed illness was caused by the lack of love from another cat. No, no way did I wantto go to the vet. I quickly realized it was time for me to pull myself together.
   I started to process my thoughts. Just because Snowball said she wanted me to stay away didn’t mean forever? And the problem with her family hadn’t gone away, had it? No, in fact I was needed more than ever, even if she didn’t realize it. In fact, if I could help the family, Snowball would surely be so happy that she would definitely want to be my friend at the very least. Although for now I would respect her wishes and stay away, I knew that it wouldn’t be forever. Or even very long.
   I had begun to regain my resolve but not my appetite; however, I realized that if I was going to prove useful, I needed to keep my strength up. So with all the energy I could muster, I left my bed, approached Claire and miaowed the way I did when I wanted feeding. She looked so happy as she praised me for looking better. Honestly, sometimes it was almost too easy.
   I forced myself to eat; it wasn’t that I felt sick, I just wasn’t that hungry, but after some food and more water, I began to feel a bit stronger. I knew I had to fight the urge to pine, because it was clear that no one ever achieved anything by pining. After four days in bed, it was time to get up.
   Next stop was Tiger. After looking in her garden to no avail, I made my way to our recreation space. She was there, with Nellie, Rocky and Elvis. They were sunbathing and passing the time, so I joined them.
   ‘Are you feeling better?’ Tiger asked. I nodded.
   ‘What was wrong?’ Nellie followed.
   ‘I don’t know, I just felt a bit under the weather,’ I replied, eager to change the subject. If I was lovesick and pining, the fewer people who knew the better. I had a reputation to maintain after all.
   ‘Guess what, Alfie?’ Elvis said.
   ‘What?’ I pricked up my ears.
   ‘Tom has a crush on our Tiger,’ Rocky quickly piped up.
   ‘Shut up,’ Tiger hissed.
   ‘He left her a present, a mouse,’ Nellie told me. Tiger just looked at me.
   ‘He’s been mooning around after her, and although we find it quite funny I do feel a bit sorry for him.’
   ‘Hey, enough!’ Tiger shouted. ‘Tom’s a bit rough around the edges but since he’s stopped fighting us he’s become a nice cat.’
   ‘But what about Snowball?’ I said.
   ‘That was his wake-up call, although personally I think it was more Salmon’s fault. Alfie, you know he helped us in any way he could when we were looking for Snowball, I think he deserves a second chance.’
   I raised my whiskers in question. It seemed maybe Tiger was a little bit keen on Tom if she was willing to give him a‘second chance’ and it was true, he had redeemed himself. I was actually delighted for my friend. Being in love, even unrequited love, made you want everyone else to feel it too.
   ‘Tom’s a nice guy now,’ I supported my friend. Tiger looked uncomfortable.
   ‘You never used to think that,’ Nellie said.
   ‘That was when he tried to bite me all the time but he doesn’t do that anymore, and he’s said he’ll give up fighting,’ I replied, magnanimously.
   ‘Glad you think so, Alfie. But anyway, just because he apparently likes me doesn’t mean that I feel the same.’ Tiger squirmed confirming my instinct was right.
   ‘But do you?’ I asked.
   ‘Right, who wants to chase butterflies?’ Tiger changed the subject.
   Tiger and I went off together, with my promise to help her chase butterflies, although I also had an ulterior motive as we needed to talk.
   ‘Were you really ill?’ she asked, as we reached the park and made for the best butterfly bushes.
   ‘No, I was just a bit sad to be honest. I didn’t realize it at the time, but that’s what it was.’
   ‘Like when humans get depressed?’ Tiger asked.
   ‘Yes a bit like that. I didn’t want to eat, I was tired, I felt like I had no energy for anything.’
   ‘But now?’
   ‘I’m feeling a bit better. To be honest, I didn’t realize that I was so bad, but when my family started talking about the vet I knew I had to do something. So I forced myself to get up and come out.’
   ‘Oh, Alfie, you’re not the type of cat to be like that. Is this about Snowball?’ She sounded cross, although not jealous.
   ‘I know and that’s why it’s so infuriating. I know it’s a bit awkward but itis to do with Snowball. She makes me feel so sad, because she doesn’t like me.’
   ‘Right, Alfie, you need a project, because otherwise you might slip back into pining for that incredibly undeserving cat,’ Tiger stormed. ‘I’d like to give her a piece of my mind.’
   ‘Don’t, Tiger, and you’re right, I do need a project; if I focus on that then I’ll forget about the heart pains I’m feeling.’
   ‘God you’re dramatic. But listen, I’ll help you. Goodness knows you don’t deserve it but I will.’ Tiger blinked at me. And I wondered why I couldn’t have fallen in love with her. She cared about me so much that life would certainly have been much easier with her; but of course as my humans say ‘you don’t choose who you fall in love with’. It just happens.
   Chapter Twenty-Eight
   ‘Alfie, play with the football outside?’ Aleksy asked me as he headed out the patio doors. I followed him. It was family day again at our house, and I was almost back to my old self. I was totally myself in front of people — and cats — but I still had the odd moment of pining when I was alone. My heart ached a bit when I pictured Snowball, no matter how fruitless it was; I had no control. But at the same time I was eating again, exercising and on the whole feeling a lot better. I had a couple of glimpses of Snowball; only from afar now the fence had been fixed and I hadn’t risked going round there. Yet.
   Tomasz bounded out after us, followed by a slightly more reluctant Henry. The boys started kicking the ball and I just watched them, rather than joining in, given that the ball was almost as big as me. Tomasz rushed into Aleksy, sending him flying, then he kicked the ball up into the air.
   ‘Tommy, stop,’ Aleksy said, rubbing his leg as he sat on the ground.
   ‘Sorry, Aleksy, I didn’t mean to hurt you.’
   ‘The ball is gone,’ Henry said, pointing at the fence. We all looked but the ball had disappeared.
   ‘I am very cross,’ Aleksy said to Tomasz as he picked himself up and, blinking back tears, made his way inside.
   I followed him, leaving Tomasz and Henry outside. Everyone else was in the kitchen, chatting and sorting out food that smelt delicious, even with my reduced appetite.
   ‘Mum, Tommy kicked the ball over the fence and he bashed into me.’ Aleksy was a sensitive boy, and he rushed to his mother’s side and into her arms.
   ‘Which way did it go?’ Jonathan asked.
   ‘That side.’ Aleksy pointed to the Snells’.
   ‘Oh boy, they might not even answer the door.’
   ‘Who’s going to go?’ Claire asked.
   ‘You know after we all bonded over the missing Snowball we’ve barely seen them,’ Jonathan said.
   ‘Really?’ Tomasz asked.
   ‘I’ll go,’ Polly announced.
   As Polly stood up to go, my heart leapt and I quickly stood up too. I definitely wasn’t going to miss this opportunity.
   We made our way next door, Polly striding along and me running to keep up with her. I was excited about the fact I had an excuse to maybe get a glimpse of Snowball. I hadn’t seen her since she banished me, but I was also nervous at the idea of seeing her and how she might react.
   Polly looked a bit anxious as she rang the doorbell. I could hear movement from inside the house, and then after what seemed like ages, the door slowly opened.
   ‘Hello, Polly,’ Daisy said with a smile as she opened the door. She turned round, shouting ‘It’s Polly.’ We couldn’t hear the response but no one else rushed to greet us. ‘Sorry, Mum’s tied up in the kitchen.’ I hoped she didn’t mean literally.
   ‘Right, so anyway,’ Polly started, her eyebrows a bit raised. ‘My friend’s little boy kicked the ball over your fence. I’m so sorry but I wondered if you wouldn’t mind getting it for us.’
   ‘Of course, no problem.’ I was surprised that Daisy was quite so sunny, given how she’d been when I’d seen her previously. She hadn’t closed the door when she went to get the ball, so I stood by Polly’s feet looking in; but there was no sign of Snowball, and I couldn’t help but feel disappointed. After a few minutes, we heard footsteps and then Daisy returned with Aleksy’s ball.
   ‘Thank you so much, love. He’ll be relieved and I’ll make sure we don’t disturb you again.’
   ‘’S all right,’ Daisy said, suddenly looking a bit coy. ‘Can I ask you, are you a model?’
   ‘No, not anymore, but I was before having two kids.’ Polly laughed. ‘And certainly not a supermodel, but I did a few magazines and catwalks in my time. Why, are you interested in that world?’ Polly asked.
   ‘I’d love it but Mum and Dad well …’
   ‘Daisy, you have the height, and the looks, although I obviously don’t know how you photograph. How old are you?’
   ‘Sixteen.’ Daisy was red-faced but I noticed that she was very pretty. I wonder why I hadn’t noticed it before.
   ‘Well, take my advice, get your exams first and then maybe think about it. It’s a tough world. But if you’re really interested and if your parents are OK, I can help with agencies.’
   ‘Would you really?’
   ‘Of course. But as I said, your parents have to agree to it, and don’t do anything until after your GCSEs.’
   We heard shouting from inside; it sounded like they were wondering what was keeping Daisy. She looked apologetic.
   ‘Sorry, I better go, but I’ll talk to Mum and Dad.’
   ‘Thanks for the ball,’ Polly said as Daisy closed the door. I was flooded with disappointment. I knew Snowball knew I was there, I could sense her, but she clearly didn’t want to see me.
   We walked down the path and back to mine in silence. As Claire opened the door, Aleksy rushed forward and looked delighted to see his ball.
   ‘Don’t kick it over again or it’s lost.’
   ‘It wasn’t me, it was Tomasz,’ Aleksy protested.
   ‘OK, tell him to be more careful, love.’ Polly ruffled his hair as she handed the ball over. She and Claire went into the kitchen. Everyone was sitting around the table. Martha was in the highchair that they brought over with them and when Polly sat down the food was served.
   ‘How was it next door?’ Jonathan asked.
   ‘Honestly those poor people are like characters in a soap opera; everyone wondering what they are up to or why they are like they are! Anyway, Daisy answered the door, I didn’t see anyone else.’
   ‘I wish we knew what their deal was? What was she like with you?’ Claire asked.
   ‘Very sweet, wanted to know if I was a model. I said I’d help her if her parents were happy with it but I can’t imagine they would be.’
   ‘Do you think they might be like those secret people?’ big Tomasz asked. I sat at Aleksy’s feet and the children were all concentrating on their food; the adults seemed more keen to chat.
   ‘What secret people?’ Matt asked.
   ‘You know something happens and they have to be new people and no one can know who they really are?’ big Tomasz explained.
   ‘Oh yes, those in witness protection!’ Claire exclaimed.
   ‘Well I guess it would explain why they don’t want to see anyone.’ Polly nodded.
   ‘And why the police visit sometimes,’ Jonathan added.
   ‘Yes but if you’re in witness protection you have to act normally so as not to raise suspicion surely?’ Matt chipped in.
   ‘Oh yeah.’ They all reverted to looking as confused as they did when they started speculating.
   After lunch had been cleared away, including my empty bowl, they all decided to go for a walk, as it was a cold but sunny day. As children were bundled into coats, and Matt fetched Martha’s pushchair, I decided that as much fun as it had been I was glad for some time alone.
   I bade them all goodbye and made my way to the back garden to sunbathe. As I jumped through the cat flap I was surprised to find a most unexpected visitor in my garden. Snowball.
   I couldn’t believe my eyes.
   ‘Hi, why are you here?’ I asked, taken aback.
   ‘We had a deal. Or so I thought. Why did you come to the house before?’
   She was as coldly hostile as ever, but beautiful with it too.
   ‘Snowball, you can’t blame me for that. I was helping Polly get Aleksy’s ball back, but I have kept away the past few days.’
   ‘Don’t take me for a fool, Alfie.’
   ‘I never would.’
   She looked at me witheringly. OK, so maybe I was a bit, but you can’t blame a cat for trying. ‘Anyway, Daisy seemed really happy to see Polly.’
   ‘She was.’ Snowball looked a bit sad for a minute. I had found her weak spot; it was Daisy. ‘But of course then when she spoke to her mum and dad they weren’t happy. They kept telling her that modelling is so tough, and not many people make it. I mean she was happy for the first time in months; you’d think they might have been a bit more supportive.’
   ‘Yes, you would. Why do you think the parents are doing that?’
   ‘They’re scared, Alfie, really scared. We all are. I know those horrible people with that nasty cat Salmon think we’re bad, and I know everyone else thinks we’re strange, but that’s not it. We’re scared. Nervous even, and on top of that we’ve lost the ability to trust.’
   ‘Wow, that’s a lot to deal with. What on earth has happened to ruin your family’s trust like this?’
   ‘I can’t tell you, and you know why I can’t,’ she reprimanded me.
   ‘Fair enough.’ I needed to tread carefully, this was the nicest she had been to me and I didn’t want to ruin that. ‘I get it, Snowball, honestly I do, because I was in a bad place, I told you. There must be something we can do. You can’t do it on your own.’ I looked at her, her eyes were filled with sadness that I just wanted to take away from her. ‘And it’s the same for us cats. You need friends and I’m willing to be just that.’
   She stood up and walked around in a circle, as if she was thinking about what I said. Then she looked at me again.
   ‘You’re a good cat, Alfie and I’m sorry I was so mean to you, but I have to do what my family wants me to do, and that means I have to keep away.’
   ‘Are you sure you won’t let me help?’
   ‘For now I can’t, sorry.’ She looked at me. ‘Honestly, Alfie, I really am sorry.’
   I was speechless as I knew that somehow, in my little garden, something had changed. A switch had been flicked. And although I didn’t know where that would lead, I felt we had taken a giant leap forward.
   She turned and ran as she heard voices. My families were back and Snowball had disappeared in a puff of fluff.
   ‘Alfie looks like the cat who got the cream,’ Claire observed later when the others had all gone home. She was right, I couldn’t get the grin off my face, ever since my encounter with Snowball. I know she didn’t exactly furnish me with good news but I felt that had been our first truly friendly conversation. I couldn’t be happier.
   ‘Hey, if he looks like the cat who got the cream, then let’s give him the cream. There’s some left over from pudding.’ As he winked, Claire giggled and I licked my lips. Moments like this, when life felt good, were priceless. And on top of that I had a big bowl of cream to enjoy.
   Chapter Twenty-Nine
   ‘Do you fancy going to the park?’ Tiger asked. We were lazing around at our patch at the end of the street. Our little gang — Elvis, Nellie, Rocky, and our newest member Tom — had been having a competition. We’d been stalking mice, but I lost as usual. Tom had won, although it was clear to us all that he was just trying to impress Tiger.
   ‘Sorry but I need to go home, Claire’s not herself,’ I explained. ‘Next time though.’
   ‘I’ll come to the park with you, Tiger,’ Tom offered, gruffly. I tried not to grin.
   ‘Oooooh,’ Nellie teased.
   ‘Shut up, Nellie. Come on, Tom, let’s go.’ Tiger stalked off without a backward glance and Tom followed. It was quite a sight to be seen. Tiger, confidently striding and the normally alpha male Tom, literally tottering after her. They did made a cute couple though, in a strange kind of way.
   It was true that I was concerned about Claire. I worried that with the excitement of everything that was happening with Snowball, I was neglecting my own family. I had to do a mental inventory: Matt, Polly and the kids were definitely all right; Franceska and family, ditto; but I wasn’t so sure about Claire and Jonathan.
   While Jonathan was the same as always, the reliable man I loved so much, Claire was see-sawing between being calm and angry. One minute she would seem happy, the next she would be snapping at Jonathan, or crying. I really was worried about her. I knew she wanted a baby, but I didn’t understand why she was behaving like this. Jonathan said to me the other day that he was walking on eggshells, and his patience — which wasn’t great at the best of times — was being tested.
   Whenever Jonathan asked her what was wrong she would snap‘nothing,’ in an almost hateful way. I would try to make things better by snuggling up to her, but so often she would burst into tears and I was left thinking I’d only made things worse, even when I purred in my most relaxing way. Jonathan and I were at a loss as to how we could help Claire and fix this situation.
   I loved Claire so much, I couldn’t bear for her to be upset, although it seemed there was little I could do. I could see Jonathan didn’t know what to do either. He was attentive, he was loving but he didn’t smother her — Jonathan wasn’t the smothering kind. He bought her flowers, which for some reason made her cross; she accused him of trying to ‘buy’ her whatever that meant? This crazy behaviour hadn’t been going on long enough for me to be desperately worried but Claire seemed to be on a slippery slope leading her back to her self-destructive ways. Jonathan was like an innocent bystander, trying to save her but without any idea of whether or not he was doing the right thing. And I for one knew exactly how that felt.
   I walked into the kitchen and it seemed my timing was impeccable. Claire was standing in front of a broken dish, sobbing. She sank to the floor, cradling her knees and sobbed even harder. I went over to her, brushing against her but she didn’t even notice. Jonathan was nowhere to be seen. I didn’t know what to do.
   I needed to take matters into my own paws, so I made my way to Polly and Matt’s. They were all there as I jumped through the cat flap and into their kitchen. The children were having something to eat and Matt was feeding Martha.
   I miaowed loudly.
   ‘Hi, Alfie,’ Matt said, as he stopped spoon-feeding Martha. Martha immediately started to cry loudly, so he continued.
   At times like this I wished I could talk. Instead, I used my loudest yowl. Henry jumped and dropped his food, Matt looked at me as did Polly.
   ‘What’s wrong?’ Matt asked.
   ‘Do you think something’s really wrong?’ Polly asked. I yowled again — of course there was something wrong. I put my head back through the cat flap to indicate that they needed to follow me to Claire’s.
   ‘Maybe I’ll check Claire’s?’ Polly suggested. ‘Can you hold the fort?’
   ‘Sure thing.’
   Polly stood up and headed out of the house. I followed her, keeping so close to her legs I was touching them. I wanted her to know I needed her, and this was the best way I could do that.
   ‘Alfie, I’m going to trip over you,’ she said, picking me up. She marched us to our front door and rang the doorbell. There was no answer. ‘Is anyone home?’ she asked. I miaowed the affirmative. She rang the bell again, her finger pressed on it insistently. Finally, Claire answered the door.
   ‘Bloody hell,’ Polly said as she looked at her, echoing my thoughts. Her face was streaked with tears, her hair was a mess and she looked terrible. It was as if she had morphed into someone else.
   ‘Thanks, Pol,’ Claire said, sarcastically, standing aside to let her in. Claire went to the living room and Polly followed her.
   ‘Sorry.’ Polly looked contrite. ‘What’s going on? Alfie came over, yelping and yowling, and I thought that maybe you were in trouble.’
   ‘I am in trouble. I hate myself at the moment, and soon I’ll drive Jonathan away. He’s been working late every night this week.’
   ‘What’s that got to do with things?’
   ‘He doesn’t want to spend any time with me and who can blame him?’
   ‘Don’t be crazy! He loves you, anyone can see that.’
   ‘He might have loved the old me but I’ve turned into some kind of mad woman that no one could love.’ She burst into tears again. Polly left the room, returning with tissues, which she handed to Claire.
   ‘What’s really going on?’ she asked, sitting down next to Claire on the sofa.
   ‘I don’t know. It’s the baby thing. We’ve been trying for ages now, and I just can’t help it but now, every time I get PMT I feel so horribly disappointed that I can’t bear it. And this time, well this time is the worst ever. For a couple of weeks now I’ve just felt evil and I know myperiod is coming, which makes me feel even worse.’
   ‘Claire, I don’t want to make things worse but you can’t have this every month.’
   ‘I know, but what can I do? I want to kill someone one minute and I just can’t stop sobbing the next.’ To illustrate this she burst into tears. Polly hugged her.
   ‘Listen, honey, this isn’t right. PMT shouldn’t be making you feel like this.’
   ‘Well I do. There’s probably something seriously wrong with me and I need to see a doctor. It’s probably early onset menopause, knowing my luck. Oh and look at my complexion, I’m covered in teenage acne.’
   ‘Claire, I don’t think this is menopause or PMT,’ Polly said gently.
   ‘Oh my God, you mean it’s something worse?’
   ‘Since when were you such a hypochondriac? No, no!’ Polly replied.
   ‘Well what is it?’ I’ve been pre-menstrual for a couple of weeks.’
   ‘Claire, do you think …’ Polly smiled. ‘Claire, do you think you could be pregnant?’
   Claire looked at Polly, thunderously. Not the reaction either of us were expecting.
   ‘Please, sorry, I know how much you want to be, so don’t hit me, but if you’re not pregnant then you need to see a doctor about the uncontrollable mood-swings and the first thing they’ll do is make you take a test.’ Polly sounded so reasonable and calm. I was glad I’d fetched her.
   ‘Oh God.’ Claire looked at Polly, who displayed a glimmer of hope in her eyes. ‘Shall I do one?’ Claire was trembling.
   ‘I take it you have some?’ Polly asked.
   ‘I’ve got about fifty in the bathroom.’ That was my Claire — always well prepared.
   She came downstairs a little while later. Polly was in the kitchen, having cleared up the broken bowl. Claire still looked terrible.
   ‘Well?’ Both Polly and I waited with bated breath.
   ‘Positive.’
   ‘You did a test?’
   ‘I did four. Oh my, I’m pregnant. I’m actually pregnant!’ Claire sounded shocked but with joy dancing across her face.
   ‘Claire, you’re having a baby!’ Polly shouted, grabbing Claire and hugging her.
   ‘Oh my God,’ Jonathan said, as he appeared in the doorway. None of us had heard him come in, we were so caught up. I watched as a huge smile spread across his face. Then Polly laughed, and Claire finally smiled and as Jonathan grabbed her in a huge hug they both cried and laughed at the same time. Polly quietly snuck out, as did I; it was a moment for just the two of them.
   We were going to be a proper family now! I was so excited, and relieved. Now Claire would be happy again. All she wanted was a baby and now it looked as if she was getting one. We were all getting one.
   Chapter Thirty
   ‘Alfie, look,’ Tiger said, gesturing to where Heather and Vic Goodwin stood on the pavement outside their house with a strange man. The man was wearing a suit and he didn’t exactly look happy. I had gone to find Tiger to deliver the good news, whilst giving Jonathan and Claire some alone time.
   ‘We need to see if we can find out what’s going on,’ I said, wondering if it was to do with the Snells.
   ‘Leave it to me.’ Tiger carefully crossed the road and hid under a car nearby. I didn’t know whether to follow her but my decision was made for me when Salmon appeared, jumping onto a wall and looking right at me with his beady eyes. Luckily it seemed he hadn’t seen Tiger. I would have to wait here and bide my time so as not to arouse suspicion.
   The suited man walked off, crossed the road to number 48 and rang the bell. Now I was really worried. The Goodwins and Salmon watched the man, all wearing the same matching self-satisfied smiles. When she felt sure everyone was looking the other way, Tiger rejoined me and we went to my front garden, out of sight of the horrible Salmon.
   ‘So …?’ I pushed, desperate for information.
   ‘It seems he’s the Snells’ landlord. The Goodwins said the family are up to no good, and although he assured them that there was nothing illegal going on in the house, they didn’t believe him. It sounds as if they’ve literally been hounding him which is why he finally caved in and said hewould go and see the Snells.’
   ‘Do you think he’s angry with the Snells?’
   ‘I think he’s more angry with the Goodwins. I heard him say they pay their rent on time, they’re no trouble, although of course the Goodwins didn’t agree with that. In the end he said he would speak with them and tell them that the neighbours were concerned. But that’s all he’s agreed to.’
   ‘Oh good. I would hate the Goodwins’ witch hunt to drive them out.’
   ‘They won’t give up though. I think they’ve far too much time on their hands and keep going on about the fact that if they have bad neighbours then the property prices will fall, whatever that means.’
   ‘What do your family think?’ I asked.
   ‘Well, I’ve heard them speaking to the Goodwins and they seem to be easily led by them. I mean my family are great and all, but they like a quiet life. The Goodwins have convinced them that they will cause a massive disturbance on the street before too long, so they are ready to support them.’
   We went back to the street to see if there were any developments. The Goodwins had gone, as had Salmon, but there was no sign of the man who was possibly inside the Snells’ house now. I looked at Tiger.
   ‘This feels like it’s just a mess but one which could so easily be cleared up.’
   ‘Is that your cat instinct?’
   ‘Yes, but now I have to go home, because I think it’s probably time for a celebratory dinner.’
   ‘You mean they might give you some nice fish because of the baby.’
   ‘I’m hoping so.’
   ‘Right, well call for me tomorrow and we can see what’s happening.’
   ‘Oh, by the way, how was your trip to the park with Tom?’ I asked. Tiger hadn’t been forthcoming with information so far.
   ‘Yeah, fine thanks,’ she replied but refused to say more before she ran off.
   I was right, as soon as I got home, Jonathan gave me some fish. As I ate, he started making dinner, while Claire sat at the table.
   ‘You know,’ Claire started, ‘it’s still early days. I know Polly knows, so Matt will too, which means we’ll have to tell Franceska and Tomasz, but perhaps we should hold off telling anyone else, just yet.’
   ‘Whatever you want, darling. But you need to see a doctor anyway, just to get the ball rolling, and then we can take it from there.’ Jonathan sounded more excited than I had ever heard him, I thought.
   ‘Yes, I’ll call them first thing. I am so unbelievably happy, Jonathan, but I really worry that something might go wrong.’
   ‘Nothing will go wrong, Claire. You do know that, deep down, don’t you?’ I miaowed, because I knew deep down that it would all be all right.
   Claire’s worried face transformed and she giggled unexpectedly, she actually giggled.
   ‘You know what, I do. Sometimes I think that I can’t be this lucky. To have found you, and this gorgeous house, a job I love, Alfie of course, our friends and now the baby. But then also, deep down, I think that this is all meant to be. This happiness, I deserve it, I earned it, and so I need to start enjoying it rather than worrying.’
   ‘My goodness, Claire! How long have I been telling you this? At last you see it for yourself.’ Jonathan came over and kissed the top of her head.
   ‘Yeah I know, Mr Right all the time,’ she teased. ‘Faith, belief in happiness, doesn’t come easy to me, but it will now, I promise. I love you and we’re going to be a wonderful family.’
   Hoping that included me, I gently jumped up onto Claire’s lap. She picked me up and kissed my nose. ‘I may be having a baby but I will always love you, Alfie,’ she said, happiness radiating from her. ‘You’ll always be my baby too.’ I smiled, I would always be loved, and I knew that as a certainty.
   Chapter Thirty-One
   Polly’s mum was visiting — babysitting — and Polly and Matt were in Claire and Jonathan’s living room. They were all drinking apart from Claire who had sworn off wine until after the baby was born.
   ‘So the doctor said you could be over two months pregnant?’ Polly asked.
   ‘Yes, it looks like it, but it’s still early days.’
   ‘Be confident, and calm, that’s the most important thing. And be thankful that you’re not too sick!’
   ‘I will, and the exciting thing is that there won’t be that long between mine and Tasha’s babies — Martha isn’t that much older really in the whole scheme of things.’
   ‘Are you going to find out the sex?’
   ‘I think so. I’m not one for surprises but Jonathan is convinced it’s a boy and is already calling him “he”. He thinks that he, Alfie and the baby are going to make this a totally male-dominated household.’
   ‘He’s happy, isn’t he?’ Polly laughed.
   ‘So happy! Isn’t it great to see a gruff man showing his caring side. I mean I know how much he loves Alfie, but now, well, with this it’s just gorgeous.’
   ‘And you are a fluffy marshmallow. Right let’s say something horrible before I go too soft.’ They laughed, and the doorbell rang.
   ‘Expecting anyone?’ Jonathan asked.
   ‘No, Frankie’s with the boys and Tomasz couldn’t get off work.’ Claire got up to answer the door. I went with her and was horrified to see the Goodwins on the doorstep. What a way to ruin our little celebration.
   ‘Hi,’ Claire said nervously. ‘I don’t mean to be rude but we’ve kind of got company.’
   ‘Well this won’t take long,’ Heather said, almost sweeping her aside. Vic followed, grinning his sinister grin.
   ‘Oh good,’ he said as he entered the living room. ‘Matt and Polly too.’
   They were all struck dumb.
   ‘Why are you wearing Christmas jumpers? It’s June?’ Jonathan finally asked after scrabbling about for something to say. Jonathan was right, their jumpers had snowmen on them. If anyone was a danger to this street it was them.
   ‘Oh they’re for our annual Christmas card. Salmon has a jumper the same,’ Vic explained.
   ‘Yes, we like to get organized, so the photographer came today. We haven’t had time to change yet.’
   ‘Erm, lovely …’ Polly arched an eyebrow, looking a bit lost for words.
   ‘What can we do for you?’ Claire asked, grabbing Jonathan’s arm.
   ‘It’s about the Snells.’
   ‘Of course it is.’ Jonathan rolled his eyes.
   ‘We’ve spoken to the landlord, but to no avail. He insists they’re paying rent and are not criminals, therefore they’re free to live there.’
   ‘Great, so can we draw a line under this then?’ Claire asked.
   ‘No, no, I’m afraid we cannot. This street is a good street and I saw the daughter with a cigarette the other day.’
   ‘That’s not illegal.’
   ‘It’s actually pretty normal teenage behaviour,’ Jonathan chipped in.
   ‘No but it is indicative of the degenerative nature of youth. That family is rotten to the core. They won’t meet us, so they obviously have something to hide. We will not stand for it.’ Vic sounded determined as he flashed his scary smile.
   ‘I really think you need to let this go,’ Matt started. ‘There is no need for a witch hunt, they haven’t hurt anyone and just because the police have been round a couple of times, doesn’t mean that they’re a band of criminals. That could be anything.’
   ‘I sometimes wonder if you people take Edgar Road seriously,’ Heather said, sounding annoyed.
   Vic spoke.‘She’s right. Anyway, we’ve told the landlord that we are going to start a petition against them and if everyone in the street signs they’ll have no choice but to leave,’ Vic added.
   ‘My God, you’re going to hound potentially innocent people from their home? Even when they have kids?’ Jonathan sounded angry and I was proud of him.
   ‘All they need to do is to tell us why they are hiding from us. Now will you sign our petition or not?’ They sounded hostile.
   ‘You know what, we’ve humoured you long enough. We come to your very long meetings, and what do they achieve? Nothing! They’re generally just a load of hot air.’ Jonathan stood now but still kept a bit of distance between him and the Goodwins.
   ‘Hours of hot air,’ Matt supported, looking like a man who would never get those hours back again.
   ‘But we won’t see this neighbourhood becoming unwelcoming and nasty, which is what is happening thanks to you two. You’ve taken against people you don’t know for reasons of your own imagining. No, we won’t be signing your petition and unless you decide to be more reasonable we won’t be coming to your meetings again,’ Jonathan finished.
   ‘How dare you!’ Vic shouted.
   ‘Hey, let’s be calm about this,’ Polly started. ‘None of us are disputing that the family’s behaviour is a little strange but we’ve spoken to Karen and Tim and we feel confident that they’re simply a family in turmoil. And that’s the only reason why they’re so intent on keeping themselves to themselves.’
   ‘Oh, Polly, you are young and na?ve. You’ve let yourself be taken in by these people. Listen to our experience and trust us.’ Heather sounded so patronizing.
   ‘You’re being ridiculous.’ Jonathan lost his temper again. ‘We’ll have no part in what you’re doing, so please leave my house and leave us alone. Blimey, the Snells have got the right idea.’
   ‘It’s a shame you own your homes otherwise we would have you evicted from the street too,’ Vic said, shouting back at Jonathan.
   I cowered under the seat; both men sounded quite aggressive.
   ‘And don’t think you will get one of our special Christmas cards this year either,’ Heather added before they stormed out.
   After everyone was sure they’d gone, Claire started laughing. ‘My God, the ultimate punishment — no Christmas card!’
   ‘I wish I could have been that photographer,’ Polly said, tears of laugher rolling down her cheeks.
   ‘Imagine, them and the cat in those jumpers?’ Claire was almost doubled up.
   ‘Where do you even get human and cat matching jumpers?’ Matt asked.
   ‘Oh she probably knits them,’ Polly added.
   ‘Hey, honey we could do that next year,’ Jonathan suggested. ‘Me, you, Alfie and the baby all in the same jumpers.’
   ‘Somehow I don’t think your relatives would get the irony,’ Claire said.
   ‘Now who said I was trying to be ironic?’ Jonathan asked.
   Chapter Thirty-Two
   Love makes the world go round. If you look, you see it; snapshots of love, everywhere you go. Especially on Edgar Road.
   In a smile, a look, a gesture, you can feel and see love. It radiates a power that envelops everyone it touches. It wraps you up and keeps you safe and warm. You see the world a bit brighter, the sun feels warmer, the flowers look more colourful, and you see beauty everywhere.
   Matt, Polly and the children all showed this love; Claire and Jonathan more than ever now; and it was obvious how much Franceska and Tomasz loved each other and their children. And they all loved me. Even the Goodwins gave off a feeling of love to each other, although it was strange they seemed to derive pleasure from meddling in other people’s lives, but it was clear they loved each other and Salmon in their funny matching-jumper-kind-of-way.
   Another month had passed since Tiger and Tom had started hanging out and they were looking almost loving, and, although it was clear that Tom was keener, the way Tiger acted when he was around suggested she was falling for his rather odd charms. So that left me. I loved so many people and cats, but of course the romantic part of my heart was reserved for Snowball.
   There were many types of love, I learnt. The happy kind, that surrounded us and the sad kind that surrounded Snowball and the Snells. I knew they all loved each other but they were lost and theirs wasn’t happy love, it was sad love. I had to do something about it, I knew, not least because I needed to win Snowball’s heart. Although that probably makes it sound more selfish than it is, because I also love helping people — you see love can mean so much, it really does make the world go round.
   Because Jonathan had stood up to the Goodwins they had become even more determined in their irrational dislike of the Snells. Tiger reported that they had indeed started a petition to get them to move from the road, and they were taking it door to door on our long street. It was ridiculous and the thing was never going to work, because most of the residents of Edgar Road wouldn’t even know who the Snells were. We knew a few neighbours to wave at but even the dreaded Neighbourhood Watch meetings only attracted a fraction of the very long street.
   What worried me was what I had heard Jonathan and Claire talking about. If the Snells were indeed vulnerable in any way then they would be made even more so if they felt unwelcome. They might even move to another house for a quiet life and that meant they would take my Snowball with them. Despite the fact there was no actual threat from the Goodwins the upset their action caused could do a lot of harm nonetheless.
   In lieu of knowing how to fix everything, it was time for me to make a‘grand gesture’. I had seen this, both on television and in real life. A grand gesture was something one did to show your loved one how much you loved them, although it usually involved some kind of sacrifice.
   It was time for me to do a grand gesture for Snowball. I needed to woo her. I needed to show her that I meant what I said, and that she wasn’t alone. I had barely seen her since that time in the garden a few weeks ago, although I had tried to; she was proving ever more elusive, forcing me to step up my efforts.
   I ruled out music, and crossed poetry off my list too as cats aren’t great at reciting it. I could bring her a few gifts but that definitely wasn’t special enough. I had no one to consult either; if I asked Tiger she would give me one of her withering looks and probably laugh at me. So, it was just down to me and I had to remember I was a cat. We might be resourceful but we don’t quite have theresourcesof humans.
   I decided to involve flowers, which all humans seemed to use to woo their women. I thought about the lovely flowers in Polly’s front garden. Surely she could spare a couple of them for me?
   I set out to pick some flowers, my plan still hazy but I felt confident that it would come to me. As I poked around in the flower beds, I realized picking flowers wasn’t as easy as it looked. I tried to swipe the flowers with my paw but they just bounced back. Then I tried to scratch at them but that just served to make petals fall off. I tried to get a few, but that wasn’t working, so there was nothing for it, I would have to dig. Digging was hard work — after all, I’m not some hapless dog — and I was beginning to feel as if this wasn’t one of my better ideas, but finally I managed to dig deep enough to grab the flowers by the roots. Sitting, I then used both paws and my mouth to yank them from the ground.
   I then faced the problem of how to carry them. All I had available to me was my mouth, so I laid them down, bent my head and picked them up, trying to ignore the earthy taste. I had to admit they didn’t look quite as good as they had in the ground by the time I made my way to Snowball’s house. I hoped that what Claire often said was true; it was the thought that counts.
   Snowball’s back garden was deserted, as was the downstairs of the house. I wanted to lay the flowers down but then how would she know that they were from me? I wondered what to do as these slightly destroyed flowers now didn’t feel like such a grand gesture. I looked up at the tree that stood proudly in the garden and I had an idea. If I was in the tree when she saw me, I could climb down and present her with the flowers making the gesture even grander!
   I wasn’t the most practised climber but I was a very determined cat so I set off. Climbing with flowers in my mouth was actually harder than walking with them, but I clenched my teeth and got on with it. I didn’t look down until I reached the second branch. It wasn’t too high but definitely high enough, I decided, as I settled down to wait for Snowball.
   It was actually really pleasant up there, I decided, as I surveyed my view. I couldn’t see into the upstairs of the house because all the curtains were closed but I watched some birds, who seemed to be aiming for me but swerved at the last minute and darted off. My jaw started to ache from clenching onto the flowers but if I let go now, they would be lost. As time wore on, I wanted to move but couldn’t, and as it grew colder and colder it eventually started to rain.
   It had been sunny when I set out, but the sky darkened, the heavens opened and a rain shower ensued. As I felt my fur begin to droop I was beginning to think that this grand gesture wasn’t actually such a good idea. Then Snowball appeared from her cat flap.
   ‘What on earth are you doing?’ she asked, but she was smiling, or actually laughing at the sight of me, drenched to the skin and now clinging to the branch with cold.
   Still, I might be soaking wet but now it was time for me to go down and present the flowers as planned. And ta da!
   I then met the next flaw in my plan as I realized that my back legs had seized up. My old injury had returned, just as it often did when it rained. I really hadn’t thought this through. I had spent too long in one position, and I needed to start wiggling them. The only problem was I was in a tree. With flowers in my mouth. What was a cat to do?
   ‘Alfie, are you OK?’ Snowball said, beginning to look concerned. I had no choice, I opened my mouth and the flowers fluttered to the ground. One of them landed on Snowball’s head. So I guess she got the idea at least. She didn’t look as pleased as I’d hoped though, as she shook the flowers off which were dripping wet too.
   ‘Sorry, but they were for you.’
   ‘Alfie, what on earth are you doing?’
   ‘Well, I had this idea that I’d get you flowers, which by the way isn’t as easy as it looks for a cat. And then I was going to sit up here and wait for you and then jump down and present you with them.’
   ‘Why on earth would you do that?’
   ‘It works for humans.’ I was in pain and beginning to feel a bit grumpy.
   ‘But now?’ Snowball asked.
   ‘Well I have this problem with my back legs sometimes, so it seems I might be a bit stuck.’
   ‘Stuck?’
   ‘Yes, as in I can’t move.’
   I tried to wriggle again but my back legs were still too stiff to be much use.
   ‘Oh, Alfie, what can I do?’ At least she had softened towards me, although she hadn’t picked up the flowers. Or said thank you come to think of it.
   There is this urban myth that cats are always being rescued by firemen. It does happen for the less intellectual of our kind, but not as much as people would have you think as it’s the ultimate humiliation for a cat.
   ‘Would you mind finding my friend Tiger?’ I asked, at a loss. I wasn’t sure what she could do but she understood my physical limitations and might be able to help.
   ‘OK, I guess I can try. Although this rain doesn’t suit me.’
   I told Snowball where she might find her and she reluctantly trotted off. I tried to stretch out but my legs just weren’t having it. I was cold, wet and unable to move, my grand gesture slowly becoming one of my worst ideas ever.
   It seemed forever before I saw Tiger following Snowball into the back yard. She took one look at me and laughed.
   ‘Thanks,’ I said. The rain had stopped as suddenly as it had started, so that was something.
   ‘What on earth are you doing?’
   ‘I’m stuck. That’s all you need to know, my back legs have seized up.’ I saw Tiger look at me, then at Snowball and finally at the sad-looking flowers.
   ‘Oh, Alfie, I’ll come up. You never were very good at climbing trees.’ Tiger quickly climbed the tree and joined me whilst Snowball sat on the ground looking at us.
   ‘You can’t move at all?’ Tiger asked, sounding concerned finally.
   ‘My legs have gone all stiff. I’ve tried to wriggle but I don’t think I can. Tiger, promise me that whatever you do you won’t let them call the fire brigade.’
   ‘What if it means you have to stay up here forever?’
   ‘Tiger, you were supposed to help.’
   ‘I know but what can I do? I don’t think I can carry you down, you might have to jump.’
   ‘But it’s too far and if I land on my back legs it’ll be worse.’
   ‘Alfie, why do you insist on doing all these stupid things?’
   ‘Tiger, you’re not helping.’
   ‘Do you guys maybe want to stop arguing and tell me what I can do?’ Snowball asked but for once we were both lost for words; and ideas.
   The patio doors suddenly opened and Christopher walked out. He looked at Snowball, then up at the tree. Tiger looked at me.
   ‘He’ll save you,’ she whispered.
   ‘You get down and then he’ll know I’m stuck,’ I suggested. Tiger, showing an agility I could only envy, quickly climbed down from the tree. She joined Snowball.
   ‘So you’ve got friends, then, Snowball? More than I have,’ Christopher said, looking and sounding glum. ‘Is that Alfie up there?’ he asked.
   Snowball miaowed.
   ‘Is he stuck?’
   She miaowed again. Christopher smiled.
   ‘Don’t worry, mate, I’ll get you.’ He tried to climb up but I was a bit too high for him.
   ‘Damn it, I can’t get up there,’ he said to himself and I felt a little more petrified. He went to the shed and took something out. When I looked I almost cried with relief, it was a ladder.
   ‘All rescued, Alfie,’ Christopher said a little while later, looking pleased with himself as he placed me gently on the wet ground. I purred and nuzzled into his legs with gratitude. He put the ladder back in the shed. I stretched and my legs started to regain some movement.
   ‘I can’t wait to tell everyone,’ he said, and I saw a glimpse of the boy underneath the surly teenager.
   ‘What was that all about?’ Snowball asked when he’d gone, narrowing her eyes at me.
   ‘It was my way of cheering you up. Flowers and me up a tree. My grand gesture,’ I explained. When I said it out loud it didn’t make as much sense as it had in my head.
   Tiger looked at Snowball and smiled.
   ‘It didn’t quite go to plan,’ Tiger teased.
   ‘No, not exactly,’ I replied.
   ‘But it was a nice thought. Right, come on, Alfie, let’s get you home,’ Tiger said. She was right, I was loath to leave Snowball but I needed to go dry off and rest my legs somewhere warm and comfortable.
   ‘OK. Sorry about the …’ I started to say to Snowball but she gave me an affectionate flick of her tail.
   ‘’S all right,’ she replied, neck pulled in coyly. I felt a prickle in my whiskers. I reluctantly started walking away.
   ‘You know what?’ Tiger said to Snowball. ‘Alfie might be a bit of an idiot at times, with all these harebrained schemes, but you know you could do a lot worse.’
   Snowball smiled, actually smiled, in response.
   I grinned to myself as I limped home.
   Chapter Thirty-Three
   My leg stiffness had eased and I was mobile again by the next morning. I resolved to take it easy for a day or two, to give myself thinking time. I was feeling reflective, the way I always did when my legs ached and I was reminded of the things that had happened in my past. I would think about events, cats and people in my life, past and present.
   I felt lucky; my world was full of colour at the moment and my families were all thriving. Claire’s ‘jigsaw’ was complete, along with Jonathan’s, and I had rarely seen two happier people. This baby, when it was born, would be the most wanted and most doted on baby, and as long as they didn’t forget me I was all for it. After all, it wouldn’t be like having a new friend, it would belike having a new sibling for me, a human sibling. I would have to work very hard taking care of it as I would be the older brother from now on. The way Aleksy would always look out for little Tomasz, or Henry for Martha.
   I took a long time to perform my morning ablutions, and then I thought about going to see Tiger. I wasn’t planning on going on one of our usual long walks but a bit of exercise was good for me. I slid out of the cat flap and found myself face to face with Snowball.
   ‘Hi,’ I said, suddenly feeling shy at her unexpected appearance.
   ‘Hello, Alfie. I thought I would see how you are after yesterday.’
   ‘That’s sweet,’ I replied. ‘But I’m good thank you. Feel a bit silly that it all went a bit …’
   ‘Wrong? Yes it did, but it did make me smile. And Christopher was so animated last night, after rescuing you; it was as if you did it as a favour just for him.’
   ‘Wish I’d thought of that really.’ I said, thinking that I really did. It would have saved me having to dig up Polly’s flower bed.
   ‘Well, you always said you could help, and you did a bit. Anyway, I wondered if you wanted to go for a walk?’
   ‘With you?’ I was shocked; was she asking me on a date?
   ‘Yes, of course with me. I thought maybe we could talk.’
   ‘OK, but can we take it slowly? I’m still aching a bit.’ I wasn’t going to pretend to be macho; that would only lead to more trouble.
   ‘No problem.’ We looked at each other and I felt my whiskers tingle again. I hoped my legs weren’t shaking as we set off. I didn’t want to bump into any other cats, so I led Snowball in the direction of the park.
   ‘Have you been to the park before?’ I asked.
   ‘No, I tend not to go out much at the moment — I prefer to stay close to home.’
   ‘Where did you live before this?’ I asked.
   ‘In Kent, it’s not that far from London but we lived in a really big house, with all this land around us.’
   ‘Our houses are quite big,’ I exclaimed. My first home was much smaller than Jonathan’s house, and his was the biggest house I had ever been in.
   ‘I guess, but the problem is that they’re not all that large compared to what we had. I barely left my garden. It could take all day to explore it, it was that big. And there were flower beds and trees and even a lake. It was so much fun.’
   ‘Really? So nothing like here?’ I could only imagine what Snowball was used to, it sounded amazing.
   ‘No, nothing like here. We didn’t have neighbours so close, we had loads of space around us. And the house was bigger too. Far too big to be honest. I could go for hours without seeing anyone, despite the fact we lived together.’
   ‘Why did they have such a big house?’
   ‘I don’t know, it’s a human thing. They had a lot of money, and people who have a lot of money often have big houses. They had more than two cars too. Daisy and Christopher went to schools that they had to pay for and Karen, well you might find it hard to believe, but she had so many clothes they could barely fit in her wardrobe! She looked glamorous all the time. She did work part-time though as she never liked just being at home. Not like now.’
   ‘What do you mean?’
   ‘She works all the time, in a hospital, any shifts she can get as she’s the only one earning money.’ Snowball looked sad, but we had reached the park.
   ‘Come on, I’ll show you the best bushes.’ I led her over and we crawled under a bush, it was really quite nice being there, alone together. It felt quite intimate as the leaves shadowed us and we sat side by side.
   ‘So what happened to it all?’
   ‘I shouldn’t be telling you any of this.’
   ‘I know, but I did get stuck up a tree for you.’ I smiled and tried to nuzzle her; she didn’t push me away, but she did look a bit embarrassed.
   ‘Right, well, anyway, we had lots of money because Tim is very clever with computers and he had a company, which was very successful. He worked a lot, mind you, and Karen always moaned that she never saw him. But they went on these exotic holidays and when they did I had to stay in a cat hotel, which I wasn’t that keen on to be honest, but they would always come back happy.’
   ‘A cat hotel?’ I had never heard of such a thing.
   ‘Yes, you had to sleep in your own cage and you got fed but there were other cats and you didn’t get half the attention you get at home.’
   ‘Sounds like the vet to me.’
   ‘Um, not exactly. Anyway there was this other man, Simon, he was Tim’s business partner but also his best friend. He was the best man at their wedding, there are photos of him; I mean there were. And the children called him Uncle Simon. He didn’t have any children of his own, but he always had a different girlfriend and Karen never liked them.’ Snowball rolled over, and sighed.
   ‘Sounds a bit like how Jonathan used to be before Claire,’ I said.
   ‘Anyway, Simon was always around. He and Tim were so close and he trusted him. But then this thing happened.’
   ‘Go on.’ I could barely wait.
   ‘Simon turned out to be bad. Really bad. He managed to do something called fraud and he took off with all their money.’
   ‘How on earth did he do that?’ I asked, not really comprehending.
   ‘I don’t exactly know how he did it but he left the company bankrupt, which means totally broken I think. He left Tim in a huge mess.’
   ‘So Tim didn’t suspect anything?’
   ‘No, he trusted Simon. But he was left owing a lot of money and he had to shut down the business. It was a huge mess. The police are trying to find him but according to Tim and Karen, even if they do it won’t make things right again.’
   ‘I’m horrified that someone could do that.’
   It was beginning to make a bit of sense as to why the Snells were so secretive and unwilling to let anyone in. No wonder they didn’t trust anyone.
   ‘It got worse though. Not only did they lose everything and have to move here but they also lost all their friends. Some people pointed the finger at Tim; although he lost everything they still thought he’d done something bad. People turned their backs on them as soon as they found out they were poor, too. It was awful. All those people who came round for parties, drank that fizzy wine, and ate our food, wouldn’t even answer their phones to Tim or Karen. They were forced to sell their house, the kids had to leave their expensive schools, and their friends abandoned them too. That was when Karen got a job near here so they moved to Edgar Road.’
   ‘But why did they think Tim was involved?’ I asked, trying to clarify.
   ‘People are judgemental, Alfie. But he is totally innocent and when they moved here he was too terrified to make friends in case they thought he was a criminal.’
   ‘The irony is that by refusing to befriend anyone on the street the Goodwins think exactly that.’
   ‘I know but he’s too affected by everything that’s happened to think straight. They all are.’
   ‘It’s a sad story. Although I will never understand why humans value money so highly, above everything else. Cats don’t have any and look how happy we are. All we need is a butterfly to chase, a warm fire to come home to, and a loving lap to sit on.’
   ‘I don’t understand either.’
   ‘And they say us cats are superficial! But when it comes down to it, we’re more loyal than most of them.’
   ‘I agree, Alfie.’ Snowball looked at me, and I couldn’t stop my heart from pounding. ‘So now you know what happened,’ she continued. ‘The police come round because of Simon. But Karen and Tim are still so depressed and so hurt, that they won’t let themselves meet anyone. They’ve puttheir guard up, and now the Goodwins are making everything so much worse, just when they thought they might be able to get their lives back on track.’
   ‘That’s the thing, when you’re down, sometimes you can’t see anything good.’
   ‘No, and I couldn’t either for a time. I’m worried for the kids. Chris is being teased at his new school because he came from a posh school. But he’s good at football, so if he would just get involved in that he would be OK. He refuses to though. And Daisy is popular because she’s pretty.To be honest, she has always been a bit of princess so she struggles with the change in her lifestyle, although as Karen points out on a regular basis, she is luckier than so many people.’
   ‘And she is — you all are — but then if you have something and it gets taken away, it’s totally natural to miss it.’
   I thought about what Dustbin had said about how some people didn’t have homes and it wasn’t their choice. That made me feel so sad. ‘Some people don’t have any home, let alone a nice one like yours,’ I said, gently.
   ‘I know, you’re right, but I miss it too. My old life, my garden. I was miserable and sad when I first came here, and I didn’t want to see anyone or make any friends.’
   ‘Really, I’d never have known,’ I joked.
   ‘Yes, but then this cat called Alfie came along and he wouldn’t take no for an answer.’
   ‘And are you glad I wouldn’t?’ I asked, suddenly feeling quite emotional. Snowball snuggled up next to me; her warmth made me feel as if I was made of gold. I nuzzled into her neck.
   ‘Yes, I think I just might be,’ she replied.
   Forget my sore legs, after hearing that I floated on air everywhere for the rest of the day.
   Chapter Thirty-Four
   ‘Well, you know I’d go and see them, but the last time I did I made things worse, and I don’t think they’d even open the door for me,’ Jonathan said.
   Polly and Matt had popped in with the children on their way home, although it was bedtime. Claire was giving Martha a cuddle, Henry and I were playing with a plastic ball as they spoke.
   ‘I don’t think they’ll let any of us in. But you know we have to try to do something.’
   ‘We could write them a note,’ Claire suggested.
   ‘Not a bad idea,’ Polly agreed.
   I was trying to concentrate on what everyone was saying, but it was difficult as my mind kept drifting back to the previous day with Snowball. After our lovely date, I slept beautifully and had lots of wonderful dreams. I had never been in love like this and until yesterday it was all one-sided. She hadn’t exactly given in totally to my charms but she had softened towards me and when I walked her to her back door, we had a little nose rub. I asked her when I would see her again but she had only said, soon. She seemed to have put a bit of her guard back up, although not totally. I just had to be patient.
   As I listened to what was going on around me, it turned out that Polly had had another run-in with the Goodwins earlier.
   I hadn’t seen Snowball today and I now found out why. Polly was upset. On her way back from dropping Henry off at nursery she ran into the Goodwins and two police officers outside the Snells’ house. According to her, the Goodwins were wearing camouflage clothes — like they wear in the army — and said they had been undercover watching the Snells’ house. The police were trying to explain they were here to see the Snells but the Goodwins kept trying to pump them for information. Polly said they were crazy and she almost expected the police to arrest them for harassment.
   Heather and Vic were interrogating the police— apparently in normal circumstances it’s the other way round. The police officers told them they couldn’t say anything, although the Goodwins kept badgering them about the Snells being part of the criminal underworld, telling them about their petition, on which they had managed, somehow, to get more than twenty signatures. Polly stepped in at this point and said that they needed to be left alone. The Goodwins accused Polly of aiding and abetting and the police looked at her with sympathy as they finally managed to get away and headed into to the Snells’ house.
   ‘Quick, back to our vantage point,’ Heather had said as they both ran to watch from behind a bush in their front garden.
   Polly had gone home, fuming.
   ‘It is quite comical when you think of it,’ Jonathan said. ‘I mean they’re now dressing up like a bush to get to the bottom of something that probably doesn’t have a bottom.’
   ‘We all know they can’t make them leave, but it must be upsetting to have a vendetta against you, no matter how ridiculous the perpetrators. I just think they should be told that we don’t feel the same way the Goodwins do, and we want to lend any support we can. We need to show them that not everyone is as horrible as that pair.’ Polly was incensed and I loved her for it.
   ‘I agree,’ Claire said. ‘Let’s get a letter done tonight and we can all sign it.’
   ‘Right, Matt. Put the kids to bed and I’ll write this letter with Claire now.’
   ‘In that case, Jonathan, you can carry one of them home with me. And have a beer when we’ve put them down.’
   ‘Sounds like a good plan to me,’ Jonathan agreed. Claire and Polly both rolled their eyes.
   I purred as loudly as I could to give them my approval, although I wasn’t sure they got it. This was perfect. What the Snells needed to know was that they did have support. After what I had heard, about how vulnerable the family was, I really did worry the Goodwins could actually hurt them. I couldn’t wait to tell Snowball, and to see her again of course.
   I decided to take a chance as the women finished writing the letter and Polly delivered it on the way home. I headed next door too, going over the fence, praying it wouldn’t hurt my legs. I went over to the patio doors but they had pulled blinds across. I moved over to the cat flap and I chanced things by putting my head through. Although I could smell Snowball, and I enjoyed taking a moment to breathe in her scent, there was no sign of her. I lay down. It was night but it was still quite light as I found a spot to wait.
   I thought I heard a loud voice and then I heard a door slam. Then another one. Then I heard a strange sound, followed by miaowing, and more door slamming. I knew I shouldn’t, I knew this was a bad time and no one wanted me there, but I couldn’t help myself. Without thinking it through, I hopped through the cat flap and into the kitchen, which was shrouded in darkness. The house was empty. Snowball wasn’t there. I looked everywhere — upstairs, downstairs — she was nowhere to be seen. What if something was wrong?
   I knew it was wrong to break into someone’s house, but I had to wait for them to come back. What if they had had enough and decided to flee regardless? I felt panic. What if I never saw Snowball again? I curled up under an armchair in the living room trying to control my fear. I felt as if I had been there for years before I heard the pitter patter of paws.
   ‘Alfie!’ Snowball exclaimed. ‘What are you doing under the chair?’
   ‘I was worried.’
   ‘About what?’
   ‘I thought you’d gone. Polly told me about the Goodwins and the police today and then Claire and Polly wrote a letter to you all to say we supported you. But I heard shouting and door slamming and thought you must have fled. I thought I’d never see you again. I was so worried I had to wait here. I couldn’t risk leaving.’
   ‘Blimey, Alfie, you have got an overactive imagination.’
   ‘Well, yes perhaps I do, but look at you; yesterday you were all doom and gloom and today you seem different.’
   ‘I was actually out looking for you! So guess what happened? The police came to say they had Simon. Although they might not get the money back, Tim will get his reputation restored and Simon will go to prison. My family are so much happier.
   ‘Karen picked up the letter from your family, read it to Tim and they both hugged. Then the kids, well, with a bit of prompting from me, asked their parents if maybe things could go back to normal a bit. Their first act of normality was that they went out to get a takeaway, together as a family.Iwas so happy I ran round to find you but you’re here after all!’
   ‘So what was all that shouting?’
   ‘Well they were quite loud admittedly, but happy loud.’
   ‘Oh, I feel like a total fool now.’
   ‘You, Alfie,are a fool, a soppy fool.’
   It was too late for me to leave before the front door opened and chatter flooded in, happy, lively chatter. Snowball smiled.
   ‘Come on, you might as well meet them all properly.’
   ‘Won’t they be cross?’
   ‘Today they wouldn’t mind if you were a lion.’
   I followed Snowball into the kitchen where the family were dishing up food and pouring drinks.
   ‘Wish it could be Champagne, darling,’ Tim said, as he handed Karen a glass of wine.
   ‘I think we’ve had enough Champagne to last a lifetime, don’t you?’ she replied, smiling.
   ‘Can I have some wine?’ Daisy asked.
   ‘A small glass,’ her father replied, pouring her one.
   ‘What about me?’ Christopher asked.
   ‘Oi, Daisy’s sixteen, but you’re only fourteen! ’Fraid not.’ Tim ruffled his son’s hair affectionately.
   You would think it was a totally different family to look at them and I smiled at Snowball, who couldn’t stop grinning at me.
   ‘Is that the cat from next door?’ Karen asked, spotting me.
   ‘Yes, it’s Alfie,’ Christopher replied. ‘Remember I told you I rescued him? I think he and Snowball are friends.’
   ‘Even the cat next door is nice, then,’ Karen mused. ‘I was touched by that note and I feel quite bad for acting like a total nutcase in front of them, but I’m not sure I’m ready to tell everyone what we’ve been through.’
   ‘I agree, it’s still so raw,’ said Tim.
   ‘We still probably need a bit of time,’ Karen said.
   ‘Not to mention getting the dreaded Goodwins out of our hair. Did you hear the police say they were hiding in bushes trying to catch us out?’
   ‘Clearly bonkers,’ Daisy said.
   ‘Yes, but I’m not ready to deal with them yet.’ Karen sounded upset.
   ‘Kids, Karen, I would like to say that I am really sorry for how bad things have been. I know moving was awful and adjusting to new schools, but now that Simon’s been caught, I do feel that we might start to get back to normal. Well, a new kind of normal anyway.’
   Tim looked sad again. I could see there had been a giant step forward but it wasn’t quite giant enough.
   Quietly, Snowball led me outside.
   ‘Wow, things have changed quickly,’ Snowball exclaimed when we were alone. ‘I know Tim will never forgive himself for trusting Simon, but at least now he’s been caught, it’ll make him feel there’s some justice.’
   ‘Do you think they’ll get the money back?’
   ‘I think it’s probably long gone. It was spent on bad investments and gambles from what I heard, but they have a home. It might not be what we were used to but it’s better than many people have, you taught me that.’
   ‘Everyone seemed happier. Well, apart from Christopher,’ I pointed out.
   ‘He’s still missing his old life. I don’t think he’s made friends at school; I haven’t seen him with anyone and he seems so withdrawn, more than any of the others. I’m Daisy’s cat and Christopher doesn’t like me half the time. Whenever he rows with his sister, he seems to blame me.’
   ‘Is he mean to you?’ I asked.
   ‘Not really, just says the odd thing, calls me a scraggy moggy when he’s really annoyed but I know deep down he doesn’t mean it. He pretends not to like Daisy but deep down he loves her too,’ Snowball explained.
   ‘I think we need to get my families and yours together. Honestly, it’ll really make yours feel welcome and wanted.’
   ‘They might, one day. But I am glad I met you, Alfie.’ Snowball nuzzled my neck and I felt like a million dollars.
   Chapter Thirty-Five
   ‘Goodness, this is a bit like when Claire and Jonathan go out with Matt and Polly,’ I said.
   Three faces looked at me. Tiger, Tom, Snowball and I were at the park, playing in the flower beds. It was like a double date, I thought. Although for now Snowball was in the friend zone, I knew it was only a matter of time before we became more romantic.
   Tiger wasn’t exactly romantic towards Tom, but he followed her around like a lovesick puppy. She obviously liked him but she was, like Snowball, playing a bit hard to get. However, we were spending a very pleasant afternoon together so I wasn’t complaining. Surprisingly, Tiger and Snowball had hit it offand Tom was definitely more charming than we had ever known him. I could see us becoming a tight little unit which made me feel more content than ever.
   Although there was nothing wrong with my life before, having Snowball come into it had definitely added another dimension. My eyes shone a bit brighter, my smile was a bit wider, and when I slept, my dreams were filled with happiness.
   And Snowball: her slow thaw towards me had accelerated at great speed— next stop love. Her family were also slowly thawing. I had seen quite a bit of them. Snowball said I was always welcome, so I had kind of added them to my list of homes, despite being there the least. I wanted them to meet my families, become friends, which is what a doorstep cat wants more than anything: to bring people together. Despite the fact they were happier and had been pleased to receive Claire and Polly’s note, they hadn’t rushed round with open arms. I understood. When you’re hurt like that, when you lose everything and especially with betrayal added into the mix it takestime to heal and gain back the confidence to trust new people.
   We still needed to find a way to get them to be friends the way we were. Gathered in the park, it seemed a good time to try to come up with a plan.
   ‘Last time you brought humans together you nearly died,’ Tiger pointed out.
   ‘Well I’m not going to do that a second time,’ I mused. ‘I’m down to my last six lives I think, so I still need to do something and it has to be big.’
   ‘Like getting stuck up a tree again,’ Tiger teased.
   ‘No, that’s too—’ I stopped, they had just given me an idea.
   We were distracted by a low flying butterfly; Tom tried to swipe it at the same time as Tiger and their paws collided.
   ‘Sorry,’ Tom mumbled looking bashful.
   ‘Well I don’t know, Alfie, maybe it’s enough that they are happier now. And they did say they’d speak to the neighbours. Maybe that’s enough?’
   ‘No, I don’t think so.’ I was a determined cat.
   ‘But none of us have a clue what to do.’ Snowball lay down and looked sad as she put her head in her paws. ‘I’m worried they’ll leave. I know they said things are looking better but they’re still not happy. I really don’t want to leave Edgar Road.’ Snowball looked so sad, lying there, that my heart went out to her. I couldn’t let that happen.
   ‘I think I know what to do,’ I exclaimed, remembering my earlier brainwave.
   ‘Oh no, I’m not sure I want to know,’ Tiger said, covering her ears with her paws. ‘Knowing you it’s going to be dangerous!’
   ‘I want to know. Come on, Alfie, tell us,’ Tom pushed.
   ‘No, you are all going to have to wait and see. Tiger, tell Snowball how good I am at getting humans to do what I want.’
   ‘He is, Snowball. He can convince any human of anything. He doesn’t pull the fur over my eyes, but those humans fall for it every time.’
   ‘I guess we’ve got nothing to lose.’ Snowball sounded doubtful.
   ‘And everything to gain,’ I finished.
   I felt a sense of purpose as we strutted home. I walked beside Snowball, whilst Tiger and Tom frolicked behind us. They definitely brought out the playful side in each other. We were almost at Snowball’s gate, when Salmon jumped out on us. I had almost forgotten about him.
   ‘Well, what do we have here,’ he said, licking his lips ominously. ‘You all look cosy together.’ Snowball hissed, but I stood next to her protectively.
   ‘Salmon, it’s time you got lost. You and your nosey family. The Snells have nothing to hide and you might as well give up now.’
   ‘What, because you tell us to?’ He laughed nastily.
   ‘No, because you’re all making huge fools of yourselves. You’re going to be the laughing stock of the street soon.’ I sounded braver than I felt.
   ‘You already are,’ Tiger piped up from behind, reinforcing my confidence.
   ‘Yes that petition didn’t work, and we cats are thinking of getting a petition going against you,’ Tom joked. He actually did have quite a good sense of humour now he was with Tiger.
   ‘Cats can’t write,’ Salmon shot back.
   ‘We’ll use mouse blood to write it all over your yard,’ Tom replied, but he didn’t sound serious. I don’t think he did anyway.
   ‘You wouldn’t dare?’ Salmon looked afraid for the first ever time.
   ‘Try us,’ I challenged.
   Salmon turned and ran back across the road.
   ‘My hero,’ Tiger said. ‘Impressive.’
   ‘You’re my hero too,’ Snowball whispered to me.
   Chapter Thirty-Six
   Claire was disappointed. I think she believed that after the note they’d sent, Karen would be round, thanking them and perhaps inviting them for a cup of tea at the very least. She ranted a bit to Jonathan that the note Karen had sent back, which Claire referred to as a ‘perfunctory’ thank you, was far from satisfactory. So it was lucky that I had my plan. Theyneeded a helping paw and luckily I was here to provide one.
   I always thought that happiness was infectious. You know, contagious. I looked at all my families up and down the street, and even further afield, and realized how happy everyone was. Even us cats had nothing to worry about. We were all elated and I knew, if we could reach them then the Snells would catch it from us. We would literally infect them with happiness.
   I breakfasted in Claire and Jonathan’s happy house. Claire had let Jonathan give me tinned or fresh fish for days now, so I was pretty lucky. Something told me that when the baby came along they would be a bit distracted and I might not get the same attention, but if they were I had back-up. I refused to have any of my joy stamped on. Not even by Salmon who had taken to staring with hostile eyes at all us cats, although from a safe distance. He really was a coward after all.
   He was extra-annoyed because Polly seemed to blame him for digging up her flowers. After my grand gesture, I’d forgotten about the slightly destroyed flower bed but Salmon had been caught lurking by her front garden, so when she jumped to that conclusion it suited me just fine.
   ‘Alfie, you are probably only going to be gone for a few hours; you’re acting as if this is your big farewell,’ Tiger said, as I went to see her before implementing my plan.
   ‘I am not. And anyway, if something goes wrong, then you’ll wish you had treated me a bit more fondly.’
   ‘Alfie, you’re such a drama cat. You yourself said that there was no danger attached to this plan.’
   ‘I know, but I would like everyone to appreciate what I am going to do.’
   ‘But we don’t know what it is!’ I could see Tiger was exasperated, so I decided to confide in her and, for once, she actually listened carefully.
   ‘Alfie, you are mad, after last time,’ Tiger said. She didn’t look every impressed.
   ‘That’s why it’s so perfect, I’ve got experience in it now. But don’t tell anyone,’ I said. ‘It’s supposed to be a secret.’ Tiger raised her whiskers, shook her head and smiled.
   ‘You will never change. Be careful, Alfie, and hopefully you’ll get what you want.’
   It was afternoon before I headed into Snowball’s house. I told her I would be there and she was in the kitchen waiting for me. She still had no idea what I was planning, so I thought I’d better tell her.
   ‘Right, I’m going up the tree again,’ I said.
   ‘Why?’ Snowball asked.
   ‘Because then your family will go and get my family, they’ll bond over the need to rescue me.’ I was pretty confident with this plan. I had thought it out. My grand gesture hadn’t worked exactly as I planned, but it had given me an idea. I was going to climb the tree again, pretend to be stuck (as this time I would ensure my legs didn’t seize up), and then Snowball would go and get help from our families. I could just picture the scene: that as they all talked about rescuing me, the Snells would realize what a good thing it was to have friends on the street, and whilst they were distracted I’d just climb down again. Of course, they’d all be so happy that I was safe that everyone would be friends. It was foolproof.
   ‘What if Christopher just gets the ladder again?’ Snowball asked.
   ‘I thought of that. I’ll go even higher so the grown-ups will have to get involved.’ I remembered that the ladder only reached the branch I was on which wasn’t that high, this time I would climb further.
   ‘And you think that will work?’
   ‘Yes, of course. Don’t you?’
   ‘What about your legs?’
   ‘You worry too much. Right, wish me luck. And trust me, this will bond them, somehow, it really will.’
   ‘Good luck. And, Alfie, either you’re mad or a genius; I just hope it’s the latter.’
   Snowball followed me to the garden. I looked at the tree, feeling confident. I’d done it before I could it again and this time I was unencumbered by flowers so it would be easier. With confidence I started to climb. I began to enjoy myself. It was early evening and still pleasant; the sun was fairly warm, the sky blue. I saw some birds overhead and listened to them singingas I made my way, branch by branch into the tree.
   I easily passed the place where I’d been when Christopher had rescued me and continued further on up. I could feel the wind in my fur as I carried on, brimming with determination with each branch I passed.
   After a long, arduous climb I suddenly realized how tired I was, so I stopped to see if I was high enough. I got myself in position on the branch and looked down.‘Oh my goodness,’ I thought, ‘what has happened?’ Snowball had shrunk — she was tiny! I looked again and saw just how high I was. I felt dizzy as the ground seemed to spin beneath me and I clung onto the branch for dear life. I cried out, but not as part of the plan; it was a cry of genuine terror as fear rushed through my fur. I had never been this high in my life and I was terrified. I thought about getting down, aborting the plan, but I couldn’t move. It was as if I was literally paralysed by fear.
   I couldn’t see her face but I could see Snowball heading inside, yelling loudly. Thankfully she soon came out with Karen and Tim. Christopher and Daisy followed them and they all looked up at me. Unfortunately, I couldn’t hear what they were saying; the wind seemed to take their words away and I was truly stuck in every sense of the word as they all stood below, looking up at me.
   There was activity on the ground, as Daisy ran out back round the side of the house and disappeared. Making sure my back legs were securely on the branch, I put my paws over my eyes to see if that stopped me feeling sick, but then I couldn’t bear not being able to see. I cemented myself to the branch wondering if I would have to stay here forever; would this be my new home?
   After what felt like hours, Polly and Matt appeared in the garden. I fleetingly wondered where Claire and Jonathan were as I saw them all staring up at me, shaking their heads. Matt came to the bottom of the tree and shouted something up, but all I could hear was my name. I miaowed as loudly as I could but I couldn’t be sure he heard me. I wanted to cry. This was not the amazingly straightforward plan I’d thought it was going to be.
   No one moved from the garden now and although I couldn’t see much, I did see Tim making a call. Matt was still trying to shout up to me, but the wind kept stealing his words so I couldn’t hear him. I wished I was in his arms right now. Anyone’s arms. I felt sick to my stomach as I huddled and clung on for dear life.
   After about half an hour of being stuck to the branch, I heard the sirens from quite far away and instinctively knew what it was. Oh the indignity! My worst fear. Matt and Tim ran round to the front of the house, and after a while they came back with four firemen who looked up at me. I covered my eyes again. I would never live this down and if this didn’t bring my families together then it would be the ultimate humiliation for nothing. They disappeared and then reappeared with a ladder that looked enormous. As they rested it against the tree, they started extending it before one man started climbing. Finally, I found myself face to face with a friendly looking fireman.
   ‘OK, Alfie, you’re safe now,’ he said, as he reached for me and took me in his arms. He did have to literally peel me off the branch but as soon as I felt his arms around me I started to feel relief. I wouldn’t have to live in the tree after all.
   I closed my eyes as we made our way down the ladder. I was still feeling sick. He handed me to Polly who was crying.
   ‘Thank you for rescuing him,’ she said. ‘Honestly, Alfie, sometimes I wonder about you, you could have fallen,’ she chastised.
   ‘Can I get you guys a cup of tea?’ Karen offered the firemen.
   ‘Nah, thanks, love, but we might have to put an actual fire out!’ he laughed. ‘But take care of that cat, he’s my first ever cat rescue,’ the man who’d got me down said. ‘And I’ve been in the brigade for over ten years.’
   I had never been so embarrassed in my life.
   Polly was still clutching me as we went round to the front of the house. Snowball followed and I could see she looked relieved, although I hadn’t had the chance to talk to her yet.
   The first thing I noticed was that the shiny red fire engine had attracted quite a crowd as most of the residents of Edgar Road stood around it— apart from the Goodwins of course, who were probably behind their curtains.
   ‘My God, are you all right?’ I heard panic in Claire’s voice as she rushed across the street and up to Polly. ‘We just got home and saw the fire engine. Is there a fire?’
   ‘No, Claire, it was Alfie, he got stuck up a tree in the Snells’ garden,’ Matt explained, still looking shaken up. I felt bad that yet again that I had made my families worry about me but I told myself it was for the greater good. I noticed that my cat friends were also out, watching the goings on hidden beneath bushes. Tiger smiled at me and I tried to smile back, still feeling woozy from my adventure up the tree.
   ‘He was so high,’ Karen said. ‘Poor little thing, none of us knew what to do so Tim called the fire brigade.’
   ‘Are you all right?’ Claire took me from Polly and cuddled me. I miaowed and snuggled into her; I was still feeling dizzy actually but so relieved to be out of the tree I almost didn’t mind.
   ‘Excuse me, it’s Rob,’ a man I recognized from the street said. ‘I’m with the local paper and we’d love to do an article, it’s not often that we get the old cat-up-a-tree story these days.’
   Did he really have to rub it in?
   The whole street seemed to be buzzing with excitement as I was handed back to the fireman who rescued me and my picture was taken. For the paper! Could this get any worse?
   ‘Right,’ Jonathan announced to the Snells, after, it seemed, the whole neighbourhood had checked on me, taking the time to introduce themselves to the Snells who seemed shy but happy to shake hands and exchange words. ‘Please come to our house so we can thank you with a drink at least.’ I waited for the Snells to make their excuses but they nodded.
   ‘That’d be lovely,’ Tim said, to everyone’s surprise, and we all happily made our way to our house.
   Polly went to get the children whom she’d left with her neighbour, and I was pleased to see that it was noisy and full in our kitchen, just the way I liked it. Matt and Polly, Claire and Jonathan sat around the table with the Snells, Martha was asleep in her buggy and Henry was playing tiredly with some cars on the floor. Daisy and Christopher seemed animated by the situation and were chatting easily with everyone, and finally Tim decided to open up and tell everyone exactly what was going on. I saw him look at Karen as if asking for permission and she squeezed his hand and smiled.
   I wanted to escape and see Snowball but Claire and Polly wouldn’t let me out of their sight so instead, I listened to the familiar story that I had heard from Snowball as I rested. As Tim left no stone unturned, my humans looked horrified as they listened to their tale.
   ‘It’s terrible, but I wish we’d known,’ Jonathan said. ‘If only to get the Goodwins off your backs.’
   ‘Yes, mate, sorry, we didn’t handle it very well,’ Tim explained.
   ‘Yeah but after hearing all you’ve been through, no one can blame you,’ Claire said, giving Karen’s hand a reassuring squeeze.
   I was still pretty shaken up from my ordeal, not to mention embarrassed. However, as I saw the happy faces in my kitchen, I tried to remember that I had got what I wanted. Well nearly, anyway.
   I heard the cat flap and everyone turned to look as Snowball appeared.
   ‘Snowball!’ Daisy said. ‘She’s come to see if Alfie’s OK.’ She was gleeful.
   Snowball miaowed and came over to my basket. She smiled at me and waved her tail and I knew she was happy as she curled down next to me.
   ‘My goodness, that’s the cutest thing I have ever seen,’ Polly said.
   ‘My God, Alfie’s got himself a girlfriend,’ Jonathan stated. Matt and Jonathan high-fived, the others all laughed and started chattering animatedly about us. Claire was pink with delight.
   I looked at Snowball, she looked at me in understanding; humans could be so juvenile sometimes but I loved them anyway.
   Epilogue
   It was family day again, six months after I had been stuck up a tree. Oh how that story never got old, not with my cat friends, who thought it was hilarious. Tiger, after telling me she had warned me I wasn’t good with trees, couldn’t stop with her teasing, and the others joined in. Then, of course, it had made its way onto the front page of the local paper. Claire had even got the photo of me and the fireman framed so every day I had a reminder of my ultimate humiliation.
   However, I was too happy at the fact that my plan worked to worry. What was a little embarrassment in the grand scheme of things?
   It had taken a while to fully ensconce the Snells into our group but slowly they had learned to trust us. Tim, Matt and Jonathan watched football together, Karen was great company now she was happier, and they had been joining us on family days for a while now.
   As it was a lovely day, we were going to have a picnic in the park, which was one of my favourite family days. Everyone was going to be there and I was beside myself with excitement. Before we left, Claire was making lots of food as I played around her feet, Jonathan was getting hot and bothered as he tried to find picnic blankets and folding chairs— which of course were where they always were. And baby Summer, who had arrived over a month ago, was curled up in her Moses basket, sleeping. I could barely take my eyes off her, she was so beautiful, and Claire teased that I was her bodyguard. Luckily, so far, that was easy, as all she did was eat and sleep — a bit like Tiger when I first met her, actually.
   I loved all my human children but when they had brought Summer home from hospital, I had fallen in love with her immediately. She was my new sister and I would do anything to make sure she was looked after. She already lived up to her name. As soon as she entered the house, it was sunny all the time. Even when she woke up throughout the night, no one moaned and Claire and Jonathan were happier than I had ever seen them.
   It wasn’t long before Polly and Matt called round, both children ensconced in the stroller, carrying even more food and chairs.
   We waited by the front gate and Jonathan, with Summer strapped to his chest, went to get the Snells. Karen opened the door, smiling shyly, shouted for the others and joined us on the pavement. I looked at Snowball and grinned. We both stopped and looked and saw the Goodwins twitching their curtains across the road. All our humans waved over at them, and they waved back. The Goodwins weren’t our friends but they had accepted the Snells at last, especially as they had gone to a couple of their Neighbourhood Watch meetings and taken homemade cake with them.
   Snowball smiled at me as we set off for the park.
   Jonathan and Matt were arranging blankets when Franceska and Tomasz and the boys arrived. Aleksy was clutching his precious football, I was pleased to see.
   ‘Hey, shall we play football while they set up lunch?’ Christopher asked.
   So much had changed. Not only did we have Summer now but the Snells were far happier. Tim had got a job and loved going to work again. Karen had managed to cut back on her hours so she wasn’t so tired. Polly had taken Daisy to see a model agency because she’d finished her exams and she was going to try out for a few jobs in the school holidays before she went back to do A-levels, and Christopher had started playing football at his school and was so good he was something of a star.
   And Snowball and I were friends. Proper friends, close friends, although so far it hadn’t become anything more. I didn’t want to push her, so I had treaded carefully; things were changing but I could tell she needed more time. However, I was feeling optimistic that today was the day that I would make the breakthrough I’d been planning for months.
   And it all started with me getting stuck up a tree.
   ‘Yeah!’ Aleksy shouted and he and Christopher took the ball to the centre of the park. Little Tomasz bounded after them, amid shouts from his father not to lose the ball this time. Henry ran as fast as he could to join in but when the boys started kicking the ball he hung back, nervously. I joined him, as did Snowball. We watched as Christopher showed off some impressive ball skills to an utterly amazed Aleksy.
   Matt, Jonathan and Tim came over.
   ‘Wow, he’s so good,’ Matt said.
   ‘He’s become the star at school, not that he likes us to acknowledge that,’ Tim said with pride.
   ‘Let’s join them,’ Jonathan suggested. They all bounded onto the small area, kicking the ball and although Christopher was clearly the only person who could play, they were all having fun.
   ‘Fun has re-entered our lives, Alfie, thanks to you,’ Snowball said as if reading my mind.
   ‘And you know I did it for you,’ I replied as I nuzzled her neck.
   ‘Come on, boys, lunch,’ Franceska called a little while later, and they all made their way over, Matt carrying Henry. The children sat together on one blanket, the adults on another. Although Daisy sat with the adults, Chris was next to his biggest fan, Aleksy. Aleksy adored him, and I was so happy to see how great Christopher was with him; like a big brother almost.
   I lay down and basked in the sun with Snowball by my side as my families chatted with hers as they feasted on the lovely food everyone had brought; I looked forward to the leftovers later.
   ‘It seems so strange to think so much has changed this year,’ Franceska said. She often became reflective when we all got together. Big Tomasz put his arm around her.
   ‘We’ve been through the mill but seem to have come out the other side,’ Tim said.
   ‘I’ll drink to that,’ Jonathan said and the men clinked their beer bottles.
   ‘Jonathan, do you remember when you thought they might be like Batman, but a whole family of crime fighters,’ Matt laughed.
   ‘Cheers for reminding us, Matt, it was only a theory,’ Jonathan laughed.
   ‘Excuse my husband, he’s almost as mad as the Goodwins sometimes.’ Claire stroked Jonathan’s arm affectionately as Franceska cuddled a sleeping Summer.
   ‘It seems the cakes have worked, they’re civil to us now,’ Karen said.
   ‘Yes — although remember it’s a fine line. You don’t want to encourage them too much or they’ll be popping round all the time.’
   ‘Good point, we’ll have to make sure we draw all the curtains at least once a week,’ Tim joked.
   As glasses chinked and more drinks were poured, Snowball and I left our families and headed to the flower beds.
   ‘Looking back, your plan, as fragile as it seemed, worked,’ she said.
   ‘And I got rescued by a fireman for you guys.’ I still expected praise and even sympathy for it all these months later, I had to be honest.
   ‘You’re right, and thank you. It’s like a happy ending all round.’ Snowball stretched out her body and yawned. A combination of sun and happiness was enough to make any cat tired.
   ‘Well, not quite,’ I said meaningfully. ‘It’s time for me to stop pussy-footing around,’ I declared.
   ‘When have you ever pussy-footed, Alfie?’ she teased.
   ‘OK, well maybe I haven’t but you know … well … you obviously know what I am trying to say, don’t you?’ I felt exposed, embarrassed and unsure.
   ‘Perhaps, you need to spell it out,’ Snowball replied, looking deep into my eyes and making my legs turn to jelly.
   ‘You are the most infuriating cat I’ve ever met. Even more so than Tiger. But you are also the most beautiful, and you make me feel alive, like I’m a better cat when I am around you. I need to know you feel the same.’
   ‘Oh, Alfie, of course I feel the same. No one has ever got stuck up a tree twice, ripped up flower beds or been rescued by a fireman for me. And even without all that, I think you are a wonderful, handsome cat and I couldn’t imagine my life without you now.’ I happily nuzzled her neck, as Aleksy came running over.
   ‘Alfie!’ he shouted as the others joined him. ‘Snowball. I think they are in love!’ he announced.
   Aleksy was holding his brother’s hand. Daisy was standing close to Christopher. Martha and Henry were holding onto the railings and peering at us. Jonathan had his arm around Claire who was carrying Summer. Polly and Matt were holding hands and Tim had his arm around Karen’s waist. Snowball and I were pressed together looking at all the humans who loved each other and loved us too.
   I felt as if I could actually see the love that surrounded me and as I looked at the faces of those that made my up all my families, I smiled the broadest smile a cat could. I had loved and lost and loved some more— but through all the happiness and sadness, there was one thing that I would never doubt. This doorstep cat was the luckiest cat in the world.
   2.5.1. ALFIE CAT IN TROUBLE
   Chapter One
   Sitting under a bush, I stared at a van, which two big men were unloading furniture from. I was about to move closer when my best cat friend, Tiger, appeared.
   ‘Alfie?’ she said.
   I flicked my tail up in greeting.‘Hello, Tiger. Look, people moving in!’ I was always excited by the sight of a removal van. You see, I am a doorstep cat. I visit more than one house and have lots of humans who think they own me. Of course, in reality I own them. But that is why removal vans have such a fascination for me. They mean new people, and new people need a cat.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_003.jpg]
   I might make some new friends to play with and if I’m lucky they might even give me yummy food – pilchards are my favourite.
   ‘Alfie, this isn’t even our street, what are you doing here?’ Tiger was annoyed by my doorstep antics. She had one family and she liked it that way. But I loved my families – I had three altogether: one main home and two others, but I always say you can never have enough humans. Or pilchards for that matter.
   ‘It’s only round the corner.’ We were in the street next to mine, Edgar Road. ‘I’m in trouble again,’ I admitted.
   ‘What did you do?’ Tiger raised her whiskers.
   ‘Why do you always assume it’s my fault?’
   ‘Because it usually is, Alfie.’
   I raised my whiskers back at her in protest, but Tiger was right.‘It’s to do with baby Summer – she isn’t sleeping. She cries all the time. She sounds like you when someone steps on your tail.’
   ‘Thanks Alfie.’ She glared at me with her yellow eyes. ‘Anyway, what has that got to do with you being in trouble?’ She licked her brightly striped fur; it was clear why she had been named Tiger.
   ‘I’m just trying to explain,’ I huffed. ‘I’m tired, and Claire and Jonathan are tired and grumpy.’
   ‘And?’
   ‘And at breakfast I was half-asleep so I stumbled into my food bowl. My paws got covered in food so I panicked and somehow managed to tread it all into the carpet.’ I shuddered as I remembered how Claire and Jonathan, my normally lovely humans, had shouted at me and called me a ‘pest’.
   ‘So, they’re cross?’ Tiger asked, sounding sorry for me.
   ‘Yes, so I decided to lie low for a while. And in doing so I’ve found a new family, just to spend a bit of time with.’ I wasn’t planning on running away or anything like that.
   ‘I guess that’s fine but Iknow you. Don’t get too involved with them – don’t poke your whiskers into their business,’ Tiger said. I nuzzled her neck.
   ‘Don’t be silly, of course I won’t,’ I replied. Honestly, Tiger didn’t need to worry so much. After all what could possibly go wrong?
   [Ea?oeiea: i_004.jpg]
   I made my way to the new house. It was easy to sneak in– the door was wide open, and the men were still carrying furniture so no one noticed me. I found myself in a big room that opened onto a kitchen.
   There was a tall, thin man unpacking a lot of fruit onto the kitchen counter. There were more bananas, oranges and apples than I had ever seen. He seemed to be taking a great deal of care, polishing them and putting them down very gently. It seemed a little strange.
   ‘Dear, could you leave that and help me?’ a woman shouted. She was shorter than the man, with big glasses and hair like a bird’s nest with lots of pencils sticking out of it.
   ‘But my fruit,’ the man replied.
   ‘I am sure it’ll be fine for a few minutes, Dear,’ she said. ‘We need to organise the furniture.’
   I watched as the two removal men moved sofas, tables and chairs while the woman kept changing her mind about where they should put things. They huffed and puffed as they went backwards and forwards a lot.
   ‘But Mrs Clover, you said it’d be fine here!’ they complained as they lifted the biggest sofa I’d ever seen.
   ‘Yes, well I thought it was, but it just doesn’t look right. Please can you put it by the window? Yes, that’ll do nicely. What do you think dear?’
   The man, I assumed Mr Clover, was staring at an apple, which was painted a bright yellow.
   ‘What? Oh yes, oh lovely.’ He obviously wasn’t paying attention but Mrs Clover seemed happy.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_004.jpg]
   There was a little girl in the corner of the room. She had a book hiding her face and seemed not to notice the commotion. I thought about approaching her, but then a boy entered the room. He looked a bit scruffy: his clothes were far from neat, he had a cheeky round face with freckles dotted across his nose and messy hair. He was carrying a box, out of which he kept dropping things. As some of them rolled towards me, I saw they were stones. He looked a bit lost. He tried to get his parents’ attention but his voice wasn’t heard in the commotion.
   Mrs Clover was giving orders; Mr Clover was looking lovingly at his yellow apple and the girl had her head in her book. With a thump, the boy suddenly dropped his box and stones flew out across the floor.
   ‘AHHHHH!’ Mr Clover shouted. Both the boy and I looked on in horror as Mr Clover skidded on a stone, slipped along the wooden floor and ended up with his head in a plant pot.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_005.jpg]
   ‘Stanley, what have you done?’ Mrs Clover screeched. She sounded cross. Stanley was red-faced as he started scooping his stones up. ‘You are such a calamity,’ she bellowed.
   ‘Sorry, sorry but it’s my special stone collection,’ the boy protested, sadly.
   ‘My head, it’s stuck, it’s stuck!’ Mr Clover shouted, his voice muffled by the pot. As he tried to pull it off, he banged into the wall.
   ‘I think it was an accident,’ the girl said, in a quiet voice, but no one took any notice.
   ‘Stanley you need to be more careful,’ Mrs Clover yelled, as Mr Clover’s head was freed by the removal men.
   ‘Sorry,’ Stanley mumbled again. I moved towards him; he definitely needed a friend.
   ‘YOWL!’ I slipped on a stray stone and fell over. My bottom ached, my tail hurt and I was lying on my back with my legs in the air.
   ‘Oh gosh, it’s a cat!’ Stanley exclaimed, scooping me up and giving me a much needed cuddle.
   ‘Miaow,’ I said.
   ‘Wow, how did you get in here? Do you live here? Who are you?’ He seemed very pleased to see me.
   I purred.
   ‘Look, Mum, Dad, Viola! Look it’s a cat! A CAT!’ he shouted.
   Still, no one seemed to hear him. Mr Clover had dropped his yellow apple during the plant pot incident and one of the removal men had stepped on it. Mr Clover was looking upset as he cradled the squishy mess. I thought he might have had tears in his eyes. The removal men were lifting a piano as Mrs Clover was telling them how precious it was and Viola was at her side. No one noticed Stanley or a lone cat.
   ‘No one ever listens to me.’ Stanley looked very upset as he took me and his stone collection out of the room.
   We went upstairs, sat on his bed and he read my name tag.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_006.jpg]
   ‘Alfie, that’s a good name for a cat.’
   I miaowed in agreement.
   ‘We had to move here from the country. I miss it.’ He looked sad as he stroked me, still clutching his stones. I purred in support. ‘My sister, Viola – she’s a podigy.’
   I tipped my head questioningly; I’d never heard of a ‘podigy’.
   ‘It means she is very good at music. She has to go to the best music school so the whole family had to come here. She’s eleven and I’m only eight so I don’t matter. I miss my old home. And Viola is so good all the time. She never gets into trouble. I always do.’
   I miaowed excitedly– Stanley and I were the same!
   ‘I don’t mean it, but I can be a bit clumsy. Mum calls me Calamity Stan. Anyway, I’m glad you’re here. Even if you don’t live in our house you can visit, and we can be friends. Can’t we?’
   I nuzzled into Stanley. Yes we would be very good friends, I could feel it in my fur. I miaowed and jumped off the bed; it was time for me to leave.
   ‘You will come back, won’t you?’ Stanley said.
   I miaowed again. You bet I would.
   Chapter Two [Ea?oeiea: i_007.jpg]
   When I returned to the Clover’s house the next day, I made my way under the fence and into the back garden. The kitchen door was open so I just walked in. Mr Clover was sitting at the table, painting the outside of the apples in rainbow colours. I wanted to know why he needed to paint fruit but I couldn’t ask, being a cat.Mrs Clover was talking on the phone and cooking lunch at the same time. I wondered, fleetingly, if I would get any but it didn’t smell like fish, so it wouldn’t matter too much if I didn’t.
   ‘I can make two new designs for plates by next week,’ Mrs Clover was saying. There was a pause. ‘Yes of course, matching bowls.’ She was stirring something on the stove and talking. ‘Oh no!’ she shouted, dropping the phone.
   ‘What is it dear?’ Mr Clover asked without looking up.
   ‘I’ve made custard instead of mushroom soup,’ she said, scratching at her messy hair. ‘I must have mixed up the packets.’ She looked puzzled.
   ‘Oh dear, dear,’ Mr Clover replied.
   I thought this might be the maddest house I had ever visited.
   ‘Never mind, custard soup will be delicious for lunch, I am sure,’ Mrs Clover decided.
   I was suddenly glad I wasn’t joining them.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_004.jpg]
   Half an hour later, I was distracted by the most beautiful music I had ever heard. Viola, the‘podigy’ was playing her piano and I was impressed. I went over to her and hopped onto her lap. She stopped and scooped me up, giving me a lovely cuddle.
   ‘What a cute cat,’ she said.
   I snuggled into her; she was pretty lovely herself. She was taller than Stanley, with the same colour hair and freckles, and she wore glasses like her mum, although her hair was much neater. As she stroked me, Stanley ran into the room like a whirlwind.
   ‘Alfie!’ he said, grabbing me from his sister. Viola looked a bit surprised; so did I. ‘I have to show Alfie something,’ Stanley said, carrying me off.
   ‘You are my friend not hers, Alfie,’ he said as he took me upstairs.
   I miaowed. Of course I could be friends with everyone but I wasn’t sure Stanley understood that. I glanced back at Viola who looked unhappy as she watched us go.
   ‘Anyway I am going to show you where Mum works. We call it the Clay Room and we are absolutelynot allowed to go in there.’ He opened the door.
   ‘YOWL!’ I said in my loudest voice. If we were absolutely not allowed to go in there, maybe we shouldn’t?
   ‘Oh it’s all right, Alfie, no one will ever know.’ Stanley crept in and I followed him, although I was sure that it was a bad idea; I could feel it in my fur.
   I had never seen a room like it before. There were boxes everywhere, and I could see that the ones that were open were full of pots. A massive wheel was set up in the centre of the room.
   ‘My mum is a very famous pottery maker,’ said Stanley. ‘She designs things and then a big factory makes loads of them to sell.’ I purred in understanding. ‘My Dad, he’s an artist. You’ve probably seen him with funny coloured fruit – that’s what he paints. He sells it to a gallery and they seem to like it.’ He sighed. ‘They are both so busy, and for me, moving here, not having any friends – well it’s not so much fun at the moment.’ He sounded troubled.
   ‘Miaow,’ I replied.
   ‘Dad’s not as successful as mum, but some people say he’s a genius. We all think he’s a bit bonkers. He’s branching out into eggs next.’
   I was lost for words.
   I looked into the big container of clay and then at the potter’s wheel. It was quite interesting.
   ‘It’s so cool isn’t it?’ Stanley said. I purred my agreement as Stanley picked me up. ‘Come and see the clay,’ he said as he walked towards a large bucket. ‘Ahhh!’ Stanley shouted, narrowly avoiding bumping into a large pot which was next to the clay. He wobbled and I felt myself slipping.
   ‘YELP!’ he dropped me and I landed in the bucket of clay. It was wet and sticky, not at all how I thought it would be. I panicked. I couldn’t move – I miaowed, yelped and yowled.
   ‘Oh Alfie, sorry, sorry, don’t worry, I’ll help you,’ Stanley shouted, trying to free me from the clay. Finally, I was out but we were both covered in the sticky stuff; it was all over my fur and paws. So much for no one knowing we were here.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_008.jpg]
   ‘You look like a clay cat!’ Stanley laughed. I wasn’t amused. Oh boy, we were going to be in so much trouble! We had no choice but to go downstairs. I shuddered as we left a trail of clay behind us; it reminded me of home and the cat food incident.
   We both stood in the doorway. Mr and Mrs Clover just looked at us.
   ‘Heavens above!’ Mr Clover said, dropping an orange. I could see where Stanley got his clumsiness from.
   ‘Stanley what have you done now?’ Mrs Clover asked.
   ‘Sorry,’ Stanley said. ‘Alfie wanted to see where you worked and well, he sort of fell into a box of clay and it left a huge mess on the carpets.’
   I stood as close to Stanley as I could, trembling with fear.
   ‘I don’t believe this; we’ve only been here five minutes and already you’ve ruined the carpets!’ Mrs Clover bawled.
   ‘But Mum,’ Viola started saying. ‘You said you hated the carpets, remember? You said they would be the first things to go.’
   I looked at Stanley, who was still staring at the floor.
   ‘Well, OK, yes that is true but still … That is no excuse for you breaking the rules and you two definitely need a bath.’ She turned to us. I wasn’t happy with that, I hated water of any kind – baths, ponds, even puddles. What had we done?
   ‘I know,’ Viola said, in her timid voice. ‘It’s so hot, shall we get the hosepipe?’
   ‘Great idea,’ Mr Clover boomed. For the first time, he seemed to be looking at something other than his fruit.
   ‘OK, I suppose so. Children, put your bathing suits on,’ Mrs Clover ordered. ‘Alfie, stay where you are. Don’t move.’
   I wasn’t sure I could; I was stuck to the floor.
   Viola and Stanley shrieked with laughter as Mr Clover swung the hosepipe around and they ran through the water. Tentatively, Mrs Clover removed the clay from my fur and paws, as I tried hard to avoid getting too wet.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_009.jpg]
   ‘Well, you are back to normal. I assume grey is your normal colour?’ Mrs Clover said as she finished. I miaowed. I was grey but in some lights I had a blue tint to my coat.
   ‘Well, this is a fun activity,’ Mr Clover chuckled and the children cheered.
   I wasn’t having very much fun, not being a fan of water, but seeing my new friends happy was almost worth getting wet for. The phone rang and Mrs Clover rushed indoors. She emerged a few minutes later. ‘Viola, quickly get dried. You’re seeing your new piano teacher this afternoon, I can’t believewe nearly forgot. Dear, can you sort out Stanley? She said, turning to Mr Clover. ‘Viola get dressed and practise.’
   ‘But Mum—’ Viola groaned.
   ‘Chop chop, hurry hurry.’ Mrs Clover wrapped Viola in a towel and took her inside. Mr Clover put the hosepipe away and Stanley and I stood, dripping, alone on the lawn.
   ‘It’s always the way – we start having fun and she has to ruin it,’ Stanley huffed.
   ‘Miaow?’ Did he mean his mum?
   ‘Viola. It’s always about Viola and her piano. No one even notices me half the time. More than half really.’
   I wanted to tell him that Viola had been enjoying herself, too. She hadn’t wanted to go in.
   ‘Come on Stanley, get yourself dried and dressed,’ Mr Clover said, going inside.
   I knew that I had a job to do. Stanley was sad; Viola seemed a bit miserable, too. Mr and Mrs Clover were distracted but in the garden they had all enjoyed themselves. I knew my mission here was to remind them that they could have fun together.
   A little while later, I found Tiger chasing butterflies at the end of Edgar Road.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_010.jpg]
   ‘Hey,’ I said.
   ‘What’s wrong, Alfie?’ she asked. She could always read my moods.
   ‘I’ve just left the Clover’s. It’s not a happy place. Stanley gets into trouble because he’s bored and the grown-ups are obsessed with work.’
   ‘Oh, Alfie, not another family to worry about?’
   ‘I went there to get away from my problems at home, not find more, but I want to help them.’
   [Ea?oeiea: i_011.jpg]
   ‘You always do,’ Tiger stated as she jumped at a butterfly, missed and fell headfirst into a bush. I couldn’t help but laugh as she brushed leaves off.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_012.jpg]
   ‘It’ll all be all right. I’ll think of something.’
   ‘Well, in the meantime, do you fancy going to the park?’ Tiger asked.
   ‘If we can roll around in the flower beds and chase flies, it might cheer me up.’ I was worried, but a bit of fun never hurt a cat.
   ‘Come on then, Alfie, I’ll race you there.’
   Chapter Three [Ea?oeiea: i_013.jpg]
   The back door was open, but there was no one downstairs. I ran up to Stanley’s room as fast as my paws would take me, where I found him, sitting on his bed. I greeted him with a purr and gently put my paw on his arm.
   ‘Alfie, I’m glad you’re here,’ he said. I miaowed. ‘I was supposed to have an adventure with Dad today. But then Mum had to work in the Clay Room, so Dad had to take Viola to her piano lesson. And I had to stay here.’ He folded his arms across his chest and made a face. I tried to tell Stanley that we could have an adventure – after all I am quite good at them – but he didn’t seem to understand.
   ‘My parents prefer her to me. It’s clear.’ He stamped his foot before sitting down next to me again. ‘They moved here for her and I miss our old home. I had lots of friends and lots of adventures. Dad and I would go and pick fruit together but now he goes to the boring old greengrocer instead and I don’t even get to go with him.’
   I knew that Stanley’s parents did love him. After all, no matter how cross my families were with me they still loved me and I loved them. But how could I tell Stanley this?
   ‘All I want to do is be an adventurer, but how can I when I can’t even practise?’
   I had an idea. I saw a pair of binoculars nearby and I went up to them. Gently, I nudged them, as if to say I could help him, but somehow I managed to get myself tangled in the strap. Part of it was round my neck and part round my legs. The more I tried to untangle myself, the more stuck I became.
   ‘MIAOW, MIAOW,’ I said as loudly as I could. That got Stanley’s attention.
   ‘Oh wow, good idea, Alfie. We can have adventures together!’
   Finally! It took him a while to untangle me, so binoculars were now added to the list of things I needed to avoid.
   ‘One minute.’ I sat still and watched as Stanley rushed around the room collecting stuff. Then, he put a hat with flaps on me; I tried to swipe them away with my paw but they just flopped back over my ears. Next, he wrapped a scarf around my neck. ‘It might be summer, Alfie, but when we explore the North Pole it’ll be cold.’
   [Ea?oeiea: i_014.jpg]
   I didn’t know what to say so I sat still and let Stanley carry on. He started taking photos; he was so excited. I didn’t actually like being dressed up; I mean what cat does? But Stanley was happy as he snapped away with his camera.
   ‘You are now Alfie the Adventure Cat and we are going to have so much fun. We can find fossils, build dens, dive for treasure. Oh I know – we can discover a species of animal never found before!’
   I had no idea how we were going to do all those things, but I kept quiet. It was worth it to see Stanley happy. He pulled out a notebook and pen and started making notes. He also drew some pictures that were very good. His plans seemed extremely ambitious but I couldn’t help feeling a bit excited. I quite fancied being an adventure cat, even if I didn’t know what it involved.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_004.jpg]
   While Stanley was busy drawing up plans for our first mission, I thought I would go and see what else was going on in the house. As I walked past the next room, I spotted Viola returning from her piano lesson. She looked down in the dumps as she sat on her bed, so I jumped up and nestled into her. She started stroking me gently and I purred.
   ‘Oh look at you, in your hat and scarf, I bet you’ve been having loads of fun with Stanley?’ She sounded sad.
   I miaowed in agreement.
   ‘You do look a little bit warm though, Alfie. Shall I help you take those off?’
   I miaowed even louder to say what a good idea this was and Viola carefully removed my adventure outfit.
   ‘I wish Stan would play with me more,’ she said. Her voice was so much quieter than Stanley’s. ‘I miss being friends with him and I miss my old home.’ She paused to wipe a tear from her cheek. ‘I know we had to move so I could go to music school but it’s a lot of pressure. I love playing the piano, I really do, and I like it here a bit, but at the same time I’m scared about my new school.’
   She had tears in her eyes. I wished she would talk to Stanley– they were both feeling the same. I brushed my tail on her wet cheek and she smiled as it tickled her. ‘I’m glad you’re here,’ she said quietly.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_015.jpg]
   ‘LUNCH,’ Mrs Clover’s voice boomed. Viola jumped up, dried her cheeks with her sleeve and ran downstairs with Stanley on her heels. I followed them into the kitchen where four bowls of pasta were laid on the table. I was glad it wasn’t custard soup again, although there was still no sign ofany pilchards.
   ‘Oh Alfie, I have something for you too,’ Mrs Clover said, putting a bowl with some tuna on the floor. I licked my lips and miaowed my thanks. Today was looking up.
   The family were quiet as they ate, as if they were all lost in their own thoughts. I started eating but kept one eye on them. Stanley was staring at his food as he shovelled it in; Viola played with hers. Mrs Clover was humming an unknown tune and Mr Clover was eating with one hand while holding an egg with the other. It was a bit odd, as I had come to know the Clovers could be.
   ‘What’s for pudding?’ Stanley asked when he’d finished.
   ‘Um, go and help yourself to some fruit,’ Mrs Clover replied. Stanley got up from the table, picked an apple off the counter and took a bite. As he walked back to the table with it, I sat at his feet.
   ‘AHHHH!’ Mr Clover screamed. Everyone looked up and Stanley dropped his apple in surprise. It landed on my head.
   ‘YELP!’ I cried.
   ‘That was my apple!’ Mr Clover shouted.
   ‘But Mum said to get some fruit, and it was on the side.’ Stanley sounded upset.
   ‘Yes, dear, I did,’ Mrs Clover agreed.
   ‘And Dad, it looks like a normal apple,’ Viola added.
   I rubbed my head with my paw. Who knew apples could be so heavy?
   ‘Well, it wasn’t a normal apple. It was a special apple that I was planning on painting later,’ Mr Clover moaned.
   I had an idea. I went to sit on a big pile of empty bags from the greengrocer’s.
   ‘Miaow,’ I said loudly.
   ‘Oh, look at Alfie! I know, why don’t we all go to the local greengrocer’s and help you choose some even better apples?’ Viola suggested, pointing at me.
   ‘Better apples?’ Mr Clover repeated.
   ‘Great idea!’ Stanley sounded excited.
   ‘Please, let’s go,’ Viola said.
   ‘All right, it’ll be a bit like old times.’ Mr Clover finally had a smile on his face, as did the rest of the family. I grinned as well.
   Everyone went to get ready for their outing and I waited by the door. As I left, I realised that I still had a lot of work to do. I had to bring the family together and help them see how much they needed each other. Because it was clear that theydid need each other and they all really needed me.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_004.jpg]
   I left them at the corner and made my way home. Tiger was lying in the sun at the end of our road.
   ‘Hey Tiger,’ I said.
   She opened her eyes.‘Alfie, you’re back early today.’
   ‘The family have gone out together. Only to get fruit, but it’s a start.’
   ‘So, you think that whatever it is you’re doing is working?’ Tiger rolled onto her stomach and looked at me.
   ‘It’s early days but I’m a confident cat.’
   ‘As long as you know what you’re doing.’
   ‘Oh Tiger, how could you say that? I always know what I’m doing.’
   Tiger flicked her tail at me as if to say‘yeah right’. ‘How about we forget the humans for a bit and go and tease some dogs?’
   She didn’t need to ask me twice.
   Chapter Four [Ea?oeiea: i_016.jpg]
   I wandered around the house, but there was no sign of Stanley. I went to see Viola who was playing the piano as usual. She stopped when I jumped onto the stool next to her and she made a fuss of me.
   ‘Hi Alfie, it’s nice to see you.’ She had such lovely manners.
   ‘Miaow,’ I said; it was nice to see her, too.
   ‘I’m afraid Stanley’s in trouble again. He pretended he was skydiving earlier, jumping off the sofa. It was funny but Dad got cross because he was being loud and I was supposed to be practising my scales.’
   I rubbed up against her. This wasn’t what I had hoped to find after yesterday.
   ‘He’s been sent outside. I didn’t want him to go. He was having so much fun, I wished I could have joined in. I mean Stanley doesn’t seem to like me very much sometimes but I wish he did. We used to play together in our old house, I miss that—’
   ‘Viola, I can’t hear the piano,’ Mrs Clover shouted. Viola sighed and I felt bad. I wished she could confide in me more. She looked downcast as she started playing again so I decided to cheer her up. I jumped onto the keys and tried to play with her. She looked surprised, then she giggled andwe played together, although I found it quite hard. The keys were unsteady and it was difficult to balance.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_017.jpg]
   ‘Plink, plonk,’ I played but suddenly my leg slipped, and I crashed onto the keys.
   BANG! My bottom hurt. To be safer, I sat on the keys and tickled Viola with my tail; she giggled.
   ‘What on earth is going on?’ Mrs Clover asked, coming into the room.
   ‘Sorry Mum,’ Viola said. ‘Alfie was playing the piano.’
   Yikes, I was in trouble now. Would I get banished, too? But Mrs Clover just laughed.
   ‘Oh you silly cat! And by the way you are no Mozart,’ she said, laughing even harder. I purred with joy as they both laughed, although I had no idea who or what Mozart was.
   ‘What’s so funny?’ Mr Clover asked as he walked in with Stanley in tow. ‘Dear, I said Stanley could come back in; I think he’s spent enough time in the shed.’
   ‘Fine, but Stanley, and Alfie actually, can you please stay out of mischief? If Viola doesn’t practise she’ll be in trouble.’
   ‘OK, Mum,’ Stanley said, grumpily. ‘Come on, Alfie. Let’s go upstairs.’
   I felt bad about leaving Viola, but I followed my friend upstairs and into his room.
   ‘I’m so fed up; she’s always telling me off, and Viola gets all their attention. Sometimes I think they don’t even want me in the house. Oh well, at least I like the shed. I mean, I can’t tell them that – they think being sent outside is a punishment, but I think the shed is going to bemy headquarters. I’ve put my special stones in it, as well as photos and plans that I’ve drawn up.’
   ‘Purrr,’ I replied.
   ‘And I’ve just had the most brilliant idea. Adventurers have to work both on dry land and under water so I thought I could practise today.’
   ‘YOWL!’ No, not water.
   ‘I shall get ready and you can be my assistant. Basically, that means you just have to be with me.’
   I felt relieved; I wasn’t planning on being involved in any underwater missions, thank you very much.
   Stanley raced around, putting on a pair of swimming trunks, a pair of funny looking rubber things on his feet and goggles over his eyes.
   ‘Right, so I have trunks, flippers and goggles. All I need now is my stopwatch and the bath.’ The flippers made him walk in a funny way. A bit like an upright frog.
   He filled the bath and got in. I sat beside the bath, a safe distance from the water. Stanley took a deep breath and started his stopwatch. Then, with the arm holding the stopwatch sticking out of the bath, he went under. After a while, his head emerged from the water; he spluttered as he looked at his stopwatch.
   ‘Not bad,’ he said. ‘But I need to do better.’ He took a deep breath and went under again.
   I waited. And waited. I moved a little closer to the bath but I couldn’t see anything. I was pretty sure that no one, apart from fish, could spend so much time underwater. I panicked. What if something happened to him? I jumped up onto the side of the tub. Stanley was very still under the water and I didn’t know what to do. I peered over the side, about to reach out with one paw, when suddenly he sat upright, knocking my paw, and me into the bath.
   SPLASH!
   ‘YOWL!’ I screamed.
   ‘Alfie!’ Stanley grabbed me quickly and lifted me out.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_018.jpg]
   I was horrified as I shook the water out of my fur.‘Alfie,’ Stanley repeated.
   I was soaked and, in a panic, I ran downstairs. I was yelping as I jumped up onto the kitchen counter, skidded and went headfirst into a basket of eggs. They all flew off the counter and smashed. I sat there, soaking wet and covered in yolk.
   ‘My eggs!’ Mr Clover screamed.
   ‘What on earth?’ Mrs Clover exclaimed.
   Viola said,‘Stanley!’ They all turned to where Stanley stood in the doorway, dripping wet, still wearing his flippers, goggles and trunks.
   ‘I am guessing you can explain this?’ Mrs Clover bellowed.
   ‘My eggs!’ Mr Clover repeated. I licked some of the egg off my fur; it wasn’t bad.
   ‘Well, you see, I was practising being underwater—’ Stanley started.
   ‘Underwater?’ Mrs Clover looked horrified.
   ‘Yes, in the bath. And Alfie came and sat on the side of the tub; I seem to have accidentally knocked him in. It’s well known that cats don’t like water. Then he screeched loudly, and ran down here. I just came to see if he was all right.’
   ‘My eggs!’
   It seemed Mr Clover was very fond of those eggs.
   ‘I don’t even know where to start. Stanley, you know you are not allowed to have baths on your own and as for being underwater – what if something had happened? Do you really think Alfie would have been able to rescue you, you silly boy?’ Mrs Clover yelled.
   Stanley looked at everyone and at me. I would have found a way to rescue him, but I didn’t know how to tell them that.
   ‘No one would be bothered if anything happened to me anyway,’ Stanley shouted. ‘You don’t care about me at all.’ He stamped his flipper and tried to run off, but he could only manage a wobbly walk with his legs out straight. It would have been funny if he wasn’t so upset.
   Viola looked distraught; Mrs Clover looked shocked and Mr Clover was still staring at the broken eggs.
   ‘What a worry that boy is.’ Mrs Clover looked upset.
   ‘But maybe he just thinks you’re cross,’ Viola said, reasonably.
   ‘Viola, can you try to get Alfie cleaned up?’ Mrs Clover asked, ignoring her. ‘And Dear?’ she said to her husband.
   ‘My eggs,’ he repeated. He really was unreasonably attached to them.
   ‘For goodness sake, forget the eggs and come and speak to your son. He needs to learn to be more careful, and you need to help me.’ Mr Clover looked up. ‘And, besides, how many times have you been told not to put all your eggs in one basket?’
   [Ea?oeiea: i_004.jpg]
   That evening, having recovered at home with a long nap, I went to look for Tiger.
   ‘Oh dear, someone looks a bit down in the dumps,’ she said as she joined me in her back garden.
   ‘It’s just all gone wrong at the Clovers. I’ve never known a family like it.’
   ‘I warned you to leave well alone, but you never listen.’ Tiger yawned. ‘I’m a bit tired, but if you want we can go and look at the moon; it might cheer you up.’
   ‘You’re a good pal, Tiger.’
   ‘Yes I am, and maybe if you weren’t so intent on saving the world you’d remember that a bit more.’
   We both sat and stared at the bright round moon and Tiger was right– it did cheer me up.
   Chapter Five [Ea?oeiea: i_019.jpg]
   I arrived at the Clovers early after yet another sleepless night. One of my families was looking after baby Summer so Claire and Jonathan could get some sleep. I was tempted to do the same, but I was worried about Stanley. I found the whole of the Clover family in the kitchen, finishing breakfast. Mr Clover was eating an egg– so it was all rightfor him to eat them but not for me to accidentally break them.
   Mrs Clover seemed cheerful, Viola was smiling but Stanley was quiet.
   ‘Right, so Dear, do you remember what I said?’ Mrs Clover asked.
   ‘What exactly was that?’ Mr Clover replied.
   ‘Tut. Please, listen and you too, Stanley,’ she said. Stanley made a face. ‘I have to take Viola to her new school. Dear, you’re in charge of making sure your son doesn’t get into trouble. Stanley you are in charge of staying out of trouble. You too, Alfie,’ she said, noticing me. ‘Come along, Viola. We don’t want to be late.’ Mrs Clover went to put her shoes on and I followed her so I could say goodbye.
   ‘Mum.’ Viola pointed at Mrs Clover’s shoes. ‘Your shoes don’t match.’ One was red and the other green.
   ‘Pah, never mind, no one looks at feet.’
   I miaowed. I did.
   ‘So I have to keep Stanley out of trouble?’ Mr Clover said coming to the front door.
   ‘Yes, you should be able to manage that, shouldn’t you?’ Mrs Clover replied.
   Mr Clover looked as if he absolutely couldn’t.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_004.jpg]
   As Stanley and his Dad cleared up the breakfast things, I managed to get myself some leftover egg; I had acquired quite the taste for it.
   ‘Right, Stan. I have to paint some fruit. I won’t be long but can you occupy yourself for a while?’
   ‘I usually do,’ Stanley mumbled sadly.
   I rubbed against his legs. I felt sorry for him– he only got his parents’ attention when he was in trouble. It was the same with me at my house at the moment.
   ‘Alfie, let’s go to the garden,’ he suggested, huffily.
   ‘Miaow.’ I followed him outside, but he didn’t seem happy as he kicked at stones. I hadn’t seen him this miserable before. I tried to encourage him to play with me. There was a frisbee on the ground which I nudged towards him.
   ‘Oh, it’s my frisbee,’ Stanley said, throwing it. I jumped up to try to catch it, but it was way too high.
   ‘Brilliant, Alfie, try again.’ Stanley suddenly looked happier. I kept jumping for the frisbee, although it was very tiring and I didn’t manage it.
   ‘Try again,’ Stanley shouted and threw it. I jumped but when I landed on all fours I saw the frisbee flying over the garden fence.
   ‘Whoops,’ Stanley said. I jumped up onto the fence and took a look. I was met by unfriendly snarling. The frisbee had landed next to a very big, very angry looking dog. I felt my fur stand on end.
   Stanley dragged a garden chair over and stood on it to see over the fence.‘I’m guessing the dog won’t throw it back so it’s down to us, Alfie.’
   Count me out, I thought.
   ‘I’ve had a brilliant idea!’ Stanley shouted running to the shed. He returned, carrying a long stick with string attached and a large hook on the end. ‘Dad’s fishing rod,’ he told me as he climbed back on the chair, wobbling a bit. ‘If I can hook the frisbee, I can get it back. Any adventurer would do the same.’ He looked pleased with himself as he flung his arms back and then forwards and I watched the line and hook flying through the air and …
   [Ea?oeiea: i_020.jpg]
   CRASH! The rod had hit the greenhouse roof next door. The dog started barking. Two people– a lady and man – ran out of the house just as Mr Clover appeared.
   ‘Stanley, what have you done?’ he shrieked.
   ‘But Dad—’
   ‘I don’t want to hear it, Stanley,’ Mr Clover shouted. Stanley’s shoulders slumped as he wandered off to the other end of the garden. ‘I am so sorry,’ Mr Clover said to the neighbours as he stood on the chair and surveyed the damage. ‘So very sorry. I’ll pay for the repairs to your greenhouse.’
   ‘Oh, don’t worry,’ the man said, smiling kindly. ‘We don’t use it. We’ve been meaning to get rid of it actually.’
   What a nice man, I thought, as the dog growled at me.
   Mr Clover looked relieved.‘Are you sure?’
   The neighbours nodded.
   ‘Well, I must do something. I know, I’ll give you a piece of my art. Wait there,’ he said, running back into the house and emerging a few moments later. He climbed back on the chair and handed a red banana over the fence. The man looked at the women as Mr Clover smiled at them expectantly.
   ‘Well, gosh, I mean, thank you,’ the woman said.
   The man stared at the banana looking puzzled.
   ‘Oh you are most welcome, and thank you,’ Mr Clover finished.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_004.jpg]
   ‘I have to paint another banana,’ Mr Clover told us as Stanley and I stood by the back door. ‘Can you please stay out of trouble for five minutes?’
   Mr Clover was still mumbling to himself– something to do with kids being a pain in his bottom and fruit being far less trouble, as he headed back inside.
   Stanley was still looking glum but then, all of a sudden, he seemed to perk up.‘Hey Alfie! I know how we can stay out of trouble and practise our adventuring: we can build a den.’ He went to the shed, and came back with a pile of things. He then went inside and brought out some poles and a blanket.
   ‘Purr,’ I replied, although I didn’t know what a den was.
   ‘So, we have a blanket, two garden chairs, some chicken wire and some funny poles I found. All any adventurer needs for the perfect base camp for our missions.’
   I followed Stanley as he set about building. I jumped on one of the chairs as he stuck the chicken wire in-between them.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_021.jpg]
   I wondered why it was called chicken wire, it looked nothing like a chicken.
   ‘Off the chair, Alfie, or you’ll end up lost under the blanket.’
   I did what I was told. He put the poles into the ground and ended up balancing the blanket over the whole thing. I crawled into the opening. It was big enough for me to live in, not that I would.
   ‘Wow,’ Stanley said as he joined me. ‘This is the best den ever.’ I was caught up in his excitement. ‘Right, so Adventure Cat, our next mission is to find fossils. We need to dig for them.’ He put a hat with a big brim on me and picked up a bucket and spade. The hat slipped over my eyesand I had to use my paws to push it back. I wished I didn’t have to wear it but I didn’t want to upset Stanley. I slowly followed him round the garden. As he dug, Stanley sifted through the mud and put his findings into the bucket. Most of it looked like rubbish to me but he seemed pleased whenhe found a coin and a plastic toy.
   ‘You see, Alfie, being an Adventurer is very serious so we need all the practice we can get. Come on, help me dig.’
   ‘Miaow.’ I tried, but digging wasn’t one of my best skills. I found it almost impossible and my paws got covered in mud. Stanley, though, managed to make quite a mess of the lawn.
   ‘Back to base camp,’ he announced finally. I followed him as he emptied his bucket to examine his findings. ‘A ring-pull, a five pence piece, a plastic aeroplane and four worms,’ he said. ‘No fossils so far. Oh well, we must not give up but now we must rest.’
   I sat on his lap, eyeing up the worms that he’d put in my hat suspiciously. They were wriggly and without fur so I didn’t trust them.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_004.jpg]
   ‘STANLEY CLOVER!’ Mrs Clover’s voice boomed angrily. We looked at each other and poked our heads out of the den. We came face to feet with Mrs Clover, Mr Clover and Viola. Mrs Clover pulled the blanket off and shrieked. She and Viola had just arrived home.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_022.jpg]
   ‘What are you doing with my special poles?’ she asked. She was red-faced and her glasses fell off, she was so angry.
   ‘What special poles?’ Mr Clover asked. Mrs Clover grabbed a stick and the den collapsed.
   ‘My den!’ Stanley cried out.
   ‘These, Stanley,’ Mrs Clover hissed, ‘are poles from the rain forest of Papua New Guinea and I was using them for a very important piece of artwork.’
   She looked so red, I thought her head might explode.
   ‘Oh dear, dear,’ Mr Clover said, calmly. ‘Look they’ll be fine.’ He went to collect the rest of the poles. ‘Just a bit of mud that we can dust off,’ he added reasonably. Mrs Clover examined them and then slowly returned to her normal colour.
   ‘You see, nothing was really wrong, was it?’ Viola said.
   ‘You were supposed to be watching him,’ Mrs Clover pointed at Mr Clover.
   ‘Ah, well you see, I was but I had to go inside and paint a banana. I gave my other one as a peace-offering to next door.’
   ‘Next door? I don’t understand.’ Mrs Clover looked confused. I wanted to cover my eyes with my paws. Now we were in real trouble.
   ‘Stanley had an accident with a fishing rod and next door’s greenhouse,’ Mr Clover explained.
   ‘I can’t even leave you two for a couple of hours.’ Mrs Clover’s face was so red again it looked as if it might explode.
   ‘I’m sorry, but I was trying to be an Adventurer. I wish I could go to Papua New Guinea,’ Stanley said sadly.
   ‘You won’t be going anywhere other than your room, young man,’ Mrs Clover shouted.
   ‘What on earth happened to the lawn?’ Mr Clover suddenly asked, noticing the holes. Stanley hung his head. Mrs Clover’s jaw dropped open and I quickly sat down to hide my paws which were still a bit muddy.
   ‘Oh no, we must have moles,’ Viola said quickly.
   ‘Moles?’ Mr Clover asked.
   ‘In London?’ Mrs Clover added. ‘Do you get moles in London?’ I looked at Stanley who was staring at his sister, open-mouthed.
   ‘Oh yes, I read about it, it’s a real problem,’ Viola said, as if she knew what she was talking about. I didn’t think she did; I’d lived in London for all of my six cat years and never even seen one mole.
   ‘Right, well I better go and look up how to get rid of them.’ Mr Clover went into the house.
   ‘And Stanley, you can repair the lawn before you go to your room,’ Mrs Clover said. She was angrier than ever as she clutched her poles and marched inside.
   Viola turned to Stanley who looked as if he was going to cry.
   ‘Don’t worry, Stan, I’ll help,’ she said quietly.
   ‘Thank you for saying it was moles, Vi. I really didn’t want to get into any more trouble.’ Stanley smiled sadly at her.
   ‘You’re welcome,’ Viola smiled back. As they filled in the holes, Viola tried to cheer Stanley up by making jokes and I sat watching. They really could be the best of friends, I thought, but they just needed a little bit of help. Luckily, I was here.
   The lawn fixed, Stanley slunk upstairs to his room. I wasn’t allowed to go with him. I felt bad and powerless as I sat in the kitchen, trying to think. Viola was now practising her piano; Mrs Clover was cleaning her rainforest poles and Mr Clover was making a display of his latest project: black apples. He was admiring them, looking very pleased with himself.
   I knew then, even more clearly, exactly what I had to do. Viola and Stanley should be sticking together. So now, all that was left was for me to figure out exactly how to unite them.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_023.jpg]
   Chapter Six [Ea?oeiea: i_024.jpg]
   It wasn’t a very happy house as I appeared at the Clovers. Stanley was in his room, lying on his bed. He didn’t even cheer up when I arrived. Viola was alone in her room, reading a book and looking sad. She didn’t make even half as much of a fuss of me as she usually did. I was so determined to comeup with a plan to bring Stanley and Viola together but they seemed further apart than ever, and I hadn’t even got a proper idea yet. I noticed that Mrs Clover was shut in the Clay Room. Did no one in this family spend time with each other? The doorbell rang and so I went downstairs. Mr Clover washolding a pink egg as he opened the door.
   ‘Hello?’ he said.
   ‘I’m Mr Ivory the piano tuner,’ the man standing on the doorstep said. He was large and had a big bag with him.
   ‘Oh, I’d quite forgotten about you,’ Mr Clover said. ‘Do come in.’
   I followed them to the piano.
   ‘Wow, that is a beautiful piano,’ Mr Ivory looked excited.
   ‘Well, yes, but it’s no egg,’ Mr Clover replied. The piano tuner gave him a funny look.
   I stayed with Mr Ivory. It was quite interesting watching him work, although I had no idea what he was doing. At the same time, I started to formulate a plan to bring Stanley and Viola together. It was the piano that took up most of Viola’s time and her parents seemed to be preoccupied with it, too. Stanley felt neglected and too upset to see that Viola could help him, if only he would let her. As Mr Ivory tinkered with this and that, making some very odd noises along the way – the piano not him – I realised that it could be part of my plan. Perhaps I could learn to play a tune. Viola and Stanley would be so happy, or they would find it so funny, that it would bring them together.
   I am not just a pretty cat, you know.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_004.jpg]
   When Mr Ivory had finished, he went to find Mr Clover. I jumped up to start practising but the top of the piano was still open and I climbed up to have a look. It was bumpy but warm as I lay down for a minute. I was tired after all the thinking I’d been doing. I yawned and closed my eyes, just for a short cat nap …
   I opened my eyes. It was pitch black. I blinked. I couldn’t see a thing.
   ‘YOWL!’ I realised I was inside the piano; the lid was closed. I tried to nudge it with my paw but it wouldn’t open. I was trapped. In a piano! What on earth was I going to do? I miaowed, yowled and yelped as loudly as I could and just as I was beginning to think I would be here forever, I heard voices.
   ‘But he has to be here,’ I heard Stanley say. He sounded distraught.
   ‘But we’ve looked everywhere, Stan,’ Viola replied. ‘Maybe we should get Mum and Dad?’
   ‘As if they care.’
   ‘Oh Stan, they do, I know they seem a bit distracted …’
   ‘Except when they’re shouting at me. Face it, Vi, they love you better.’
   ‘Oh Stan, don’t say that.’ I heard her protest as she sat on the stool, and hit some keys.
   ‘OW!’ that hurt.
   ‘He wouldn’t have gone without saying goodbye,’ Stanley said; they hadn’t heard me.
   ‘Calm down, we’ll keep looking,’ Viola sniffed. ‘Honestly, Stan, I’ll help you, I want to help.’
   ‘It’s been horrible since we moved here,’ Stanley said. ‘Alfie is the only good thing about it.’
   ‘I miss our old house, too,’ Viola said.
   ‘Do you?’ he asked. I heard him sitting down and he bashed the keys.
   ‘OW!’
   ‘Yes, very much,’ Viola said. ‘Oh Stanley, I just want to be your friend.’
   ‘Really?’ Stanley sounded unsure.
   ‘Of course, I love it when we play games together. It’s so much fun.’
   ‘It is fun, isn’t it? Maybe we could do more, you know, like you could help with my adventures?’ Stanley sounded uncertain.
   ‘Yes, I’d really like that. Let’s start by looking for Alfie together.’ Viola sounded more cheerful.
   ‘OK, I’m really worried, Vi,’ Stanley added.
   I took a deep breath and gave my loudest‘YOWL!’, and quickly followed it up with another one.
   ‘What was that?’ Stanley asked.
   ‘I think it came from inside the piano,’ Viola replied. The piano lid slowly opened and I jumped out, straight into Viola’s arms.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_025.jpg]
   ‘Alfie, thank goodness!’ Stanley said. I purred my thanks as Stanley stroked me. ‘Thanks Vi,’ Stanley mumbled, and Viola smiled. See, I knew they could be friends. Viola moved towards Stanley and, still holding me, she hugged her brother.
   Mr and Mrs Clover walked in.
   ‘Ah, there you are children. Is the piano all right, Viola?’
   ‘Perfect,’ she replied, giving Stanley a funny look. They both giggled.
   I had done it; I had made them laugh, and they had made friends. I didn’t even have to learn how to play the piano after all.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_004.jpg]
   As I approached my house, I found Tiger sitting under a bush in my front garden.
   ‘Hey,’ I said, feeling proud.
   ‘Why do you look like the cat who’s got the cream?’ Tiger asked. I licked my whiskers.
   ‘Yum, I wish I did have cream.’ Suddenly, I remembered I was quite hungry. ‘Well, if you must know, I have managed to solve all of the Clover children’s problems.’
   ‘Oh Alfie, here we go again,’ Tiger said, rolling onto her back. She could be a very negative cat.
   ‘No, honestly, it was genius. I knew I needed to get them to spend more time together and now they are going to. Alfie strikes again!’
   Tiger looked at me as she swiped her paw at a passing fly. She missed then she rolled back and stood on all fours.
   ‘I guess you are going to tell me about it, whether I like it or not?’
   Of course I was.‘Well, it all began with a piano …’
   Chapter Seven [Ea?oeiea: i_026.jpg]
   Stanley was sitting at the kitchen table with a box in front of him when I let myself in. I jumped up. It had wriggly worms in it. I backed off slightly; I still didn’t trust them.
   ‘Miaow.’
   [Ea?oeiea: i_027.jpg]
   Stanley looked sad.‘Oh Alfie, hi, I was just looking at my worm collection. Every Adventurer needs a collection of wild animals.’
   ‘Miaow!’ He had me. He didn’t need worms.
   ‘You don’t count Alfie, you’re not wild.’ I didn’t know whether to be offended or not. ‘Anyway, I am so totally bored today. I don’t know what to do. Mum and Dad have been spending all their time with Viola. She’s playing them her new piece of music.’ He looked at me. ‘She was going to play with me, but they wouldn’t let her.’
   Oh dear. Poor Stanley. He had made friends with his sister but he was still upset by his parents. I had an idea. I jumped off the table and went through to the living room, knowing that Stanley would follow. He did. Viola was playing her new piece of music, her mum and dad were standing watching her. I approached with Stanley just behind me, clutching his box of worms.
   ‘Bravo,’ Mrs Clover clapped. She had tears in her eyes.
   ‘Viola, that was brilliant,’ Mr Clover said.
   ‘Such a talented girl,’ Mrs Clover added.
   Viola blushed. I could see Stanley getting angry.
   ‘Look everyone, I’ve got a worm collection,’ Stanley said, standing right behind his parents.
   ‘What?’ Mr Clover swung round and bumped into Stanley.
   ‘Ahhh!’ Stanley said, dropping his box.
   ‘AHHHHHHH!’ Viola screamed as worms landed in her lap. She jumped up then tripped over. ‘Oww.’ She landed on her bottom, her glasses flying across the air.
   ‘Sorry,’ Stanley said, scooping his worms up. I wasn’t sure if he was apologising to Viola or the worms.
   ‘Right, Stanley that is it,’ his mother shouted. ‘Worms do not belong in the house and look what you have done to your sister.’
   ‘I’m fine, honestly, Mum,’ Viola said. But everyone ignored her.
   ‘You never pay any attention to me.’ Stanley shouted.
   ‘Well I am paying attention to you now, young man,’ his mother said, waggling her finger at him. ‘You will say sorry to Viola, and then you can go to your room and think about your behaviour.’
   Stanley ran off.
   ‘I just don’t know what to do about him,’ Mrs Clover said as I went to follow. ‘No Alfie.’ Mrs Clover picked me up before I reached the stairs. ‘Stanley needs to learn to behave himself, so I am afraid you will have to leave today. Come back tomorrow.’ She opened the front door and put me outside.
   I hadn’t done anything and I was being banished! I was beginning to understand why Stanley was so angry with his parents. I sat on the steps feeling cross, before deciding that I might as well go to the park. With any luck Tiger would be there. I started walking slowly, taking my time. The sun was beating down, birds were flying overhead, and I stopped to look at flowers. My good mood returned as I enjoyed my journey.
   No sign of Tiger as I made my way to the flower bed. I was just about to dive under my favourite bush when…
   ‘Yelp!’ Stanley was right behind me. I knew children shouldn’t be out without a grown up and although I was six cat years old, I didn’t qualify.
   ‘Hi Alfie,’ Stanley looked very pleased with himself. He was wearing a big hat, had a pair of binoculars around his neck and was holding his compass.
   ‘Miaow?’
   [Ea?oeiea: i_028.jpg]
   ‘An Adventurer needs to be able to stalk without being detected. I decided to practise by following you.’
   ‘Miaow?’
   ‘Mum and Dad were so busy, they didn’t see me sneaking out. They don’t care anyway. Besides, you didn’t notice me following you which means I’m very good at it.’
   I knew we were going to be in big trouble for this. I tried to get Stanley to go back home by walking to the park exit but he wouldn’t. He collected some leaves, and then he climbed up one of the smaller trees.
   ‘Um, there is not much on the horizon,’ he said, looking through his binoculars. ‘Ah, some rare species of plants.’
   I had no idea what to do, so I just stayed with him. After what seemed like ages, he came down from the tree.
   ‘I suppose I’d better go home; it’s probably nearly tea time,’ he said. Finally. I rewarded him by brushing my tail against his legs. ‘Right, let’s go.’ He took out his compass. ‘Oh dear, which way is home?’ We stood at the park exit. I knew, so I miaowed but he didn’t seem to hear me. He looked at his compass and started running round in circles. ‘My compass is broken and now I am totally lost!’ he shrieked as he started getting breathless. I tried to get his attention but he was spinning too much.‘Oh no, I am going to have to live in this park forever!’ Stanley shouted. He was huffing and puffing, sweating and distressed.
   ‘Miaow, miaow, miaow!’ I screeched. Finally, he stood still. I started walking, hoping he would follow me and, still holding the ‘broken’ compass, he finally did. I led him home as quickly as my legs would allow.
   ‘Wow, you really are an adventure cat,’ he said, as we reached his front door.
   We rang the doorbell, and although I didn’t want to wait, I knew I couldn’t abandon Stanley now. Mr Clover opened the door.
   ‘Oh my goodness, there you are!’ he said. Stanley hung his head.
   ‘Where have you been?’ Mrs Clover shrieked as soon as she saw him. Viola burst into tears.
   ‘Sorry, but—’
   ‘No, Stanley you have gone too far this time,’ Mrs Clover interrupted. ‘It’s not safe for children to go wandering off; anything could have happened to you.’ Mrs Clover was more upset than I had ever seen her.
   ‘We were worried sick, Stanley,’ Mr Clover shouted. ‘Worried sick.’
   I looked at Stanley who looked at his feet. He was bright red.
   ‘You are to go straight to your room,’ Mrs Clover started crying. ‘And you are not to leave this house, not even to go in the garden.’
   ‘Not fair.’ Stanley threw his compass. It flew through the air and I could barely look as it smashed into one of Mrs Clover’s pots.
   ‘My new pot!’ she screamed. Mrs Clover started to cry as Mr Clover hugged her and Viola.
   Stanley looked at the three of them, huddled together and, without them noticing, he ran into the garden.
   Chapter Eight [Ea?oeiea: i_029.jpg]
   I needed to go home but first, I had to mend the Clover family. They were quite broken. I followed Stanley to the shed, where he sank down on the picnic blanket and sobbed. I went over to him and rubbed up against him, purring to let him know I was there for him.
   ‘Miaow.’ Gently, I put my paw on his arm.
   ‘I didn’t mean to break the pot,’ he said sadly. ‘Now Mum and Dad will be crosser than ever with me. They might send me away.’
   ‘Miaow.’ Of course they wouldn’t.
   ‘They don’t want me here.’
   I looked around. My Adventure Cat photos and drawings were on the walls and his collections were laid out on shelves. He had made it very cosy here but I knew he needed to go back to the house.
   ‘I am never going back to the house,’ he said. So much for that.
   I waited with him for ages but he wouldn’t move. It was getting cold and even a little bit dark. We couldn’t really stay here forever, could we? I knew I needed to act. When Stanley was calmer, I left him to get help. It was a job for more than just me.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_030.jpg]
   ‘Where on earth can he be?’ Mrs Clover was shrieking. I miaowed to tell them I knew, but they didn’t seem to hear me.
   ‘He can’t have gone far, Dear, after all we locked the front door and he can’t get out the back.’
   ‘He can’t have disappeared into thin air,’ Mrs Clover said. They both looked worried as they talked about calling the police. I couldn’t believe no one thought to check the shed.
   ‘What are we going to do about him?’ Mrs Clover asked.
   ‘Maybe you just need to talk to him,’ Viola said, sounding cross.
   ‘What?’ Her parents turned to look at her.
   Viola sighed.‘We’ve just moved here. Stanley has no friends apart from Alfie.’ I was moved by the mention. ‘And you’re so busy. He thinks it’s all about me and the piano.’
   They both looked at her in confusion.Sometimes humans can be a bit silly.
   ‘So he keeps getting into trouble because we’ve moved?’ Mr Clover scratched his head.
   ‘It’s notjust that but basically, yes. And it’s school holidays, so he’s bored and you just shout at him. He thinks you love me more than you love him.’ Viola had tears in her eyes.
   ‘Nonsense,’ Mrs Clover said. ‘We love you both the same. Why on earth would he think that?’
   ‘But we don’t do anything together, do we? When was the last time Dad took Stanley out? Or you, Mum? Or the last time we did anything as a family?’
   ‘Oh dear, dear,’ Mr Clover said, looking guilty.
   ‘I see, Viola. We’ve been so busy we’ve neglected him.’ They both hung their heads in shame.
   ‘We must find him,’ Viola pushed.
   I had never heard her sound so bossy and I liked it.
   Mrs Clover organised a search of the house, but of course I knew where he was. I stood between Viola’s legs and kept miaowing.
   ‘What is it Alfie?’ she asked. I nudged her leg and then I walked out into the garden. I turned back, yelped at her and she began to follow me.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_004.jpg]
   ‘Oh Stanley there you are! Mum and dad are really worried,’ she said, as I pushed open the shed door.
   ‘No, they just want to shout at me,’ Stanley huffed.
   ‘Honestly, they aren’t cross. They just want to know you’re safe.’
   ‘They don’t care. I’m rubbish at everything and they only love you,’ Stanley said. ‘They probably want to send me away.’
   ‘They don’t, Stan. I spoke to them and they realise they’ve been too caught up in their stuff. They’re really sorry.’
   ‘Are they?’ Stanley looked hopeful.
   Viola nodded.‘Hey, what’s all this?’ She looked at the pictures.
   ‘Alfie the Adventure Cat,’ Stanley replied quietly.
   ‘You did all this?’ Viola asked.
   ‘Yes.’ Stanley stood up. ‘See, here are my photos of Alfie the Adventure cat, and over there are drawings of our missions,’ he explained, pointing to a picture of the den and the dug-up lawn. ‘And I’ve done descriptions and maps of ideas for new adventures.’ Stan was animated as he showed Viola round the shed.
   ‘Wow, Stan, it’s brilliant!’
   ‘Really?’ Stanley asked.
   ‘It really is. So amazing. I know it hasn’t been easy moving here. I’ve been scared and Mum and Dad, well they are—’
   ‘Always too busy for me unless they’re shouting.’
   ‘They only tell you off because they care. They wouldn’t bother if they didn’t.’
   I miaowed. Viola was right.
   ‘I suppose,’ Stanley replied.
   ‘And I thought we were friends now. I haven’t got any friends here, either, you know.’
   ‘Sorry Vi, but I was jealous. You never get into trouble.’
   ‘But I don’t mean to be like that. And I’m jealous ofyou– you know how to have fun much more than I do.’
   ‘OK,’ Stanley stood up. ‘Let’s make a pact: we’ll try to be a bit more like each other – I’ll get in less trouble and—’
   ‘I’ll get in more!’ Viola giggled. ‘Come on, let’s go. Mum and Dad are far too silly to even think of looking for you in the shed, and they were talking about calling the police.’
   Viola hugged Stanley and he hugged her back. I miaowed. This was exactly the outcome I wanted.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_031.jpg]
   ‘Oh Stanley, we were so worried,’ Mrs Clover said as she grabbed him, holding him so tight I wondered if he could breathe.
   ‘I’m sorry that I keep doing things wrong,’ Stanley said. He hung his head as I sat at his feet.
   ‘Well, that is how we learn; I mean, you don’t think I just painted a piece of fruit and that was that – no, I made plenty of mistakes,’ Mr Clover said.
   ‘Um, well anyway, we need to make more time for you – for both of you, but especially you, Stanley. So we are all going on a family holiday,’ Mrs Clover announced.
   ‘Hooray!’ both Viola and Stanley replied.
   ‘And we will start by making your favourite tea.’
   ‘Sausages and chips?’ Stanley was wide eyed.
   ‘Whatever you want,’ Mrs Clover added.
   ‘As long as it’s not custard soup,’ Viola said and everyone laughed.
   I knew my work here was done. For now.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_004.jpg]
   Quietly, I let myself into my home through my cat-flap. It was late and I was tired after such an eventful day, hungry too.
   ‘Oh Alfie,’ Claire said as I walked into the kitchen. ‘We were worried about you.’ She scooped me up and cuddled me.
   ‘I know we’ve been grumpy but we missed you, Alfie,’ Jonathan added. I purred with happiness.
   ‘And to show you how much we love you, we’ve got your favourite tea.’ Claire rubbed my head.
   ‘Pilchards,’ both Claire and Jonathan said at the same time. I licked my lips and felt my whiskers quiver in anticipation.
   This had turned out to be the best day ever.
   2.5.2. ALFIE FAR FROM HOME
   My name is Alfie and I am a cat, or more accurately I am a doorstep cat. This means I have one main family who I live with in Edgar Road, but I also visit other homes. I am a bit like a part-time pet in each one. I get fed (yummy), I get stroked and fussed over and I also get to play with lots of children. I really like children. I have many friends, both human and cat, but my latest are the Clover family. They recently moved into the next street to me and I have been spending a bit of time with them.
   You see, I also get involved in the lives of my humans, who often need my help. And this cat is very good at helping people. It’s what I do – what any good doorstep cat should do.
   Chapter 1
   I sat on the pavement with the Clover family. Eight-year-old Stanley squealed excitedly as they stared at a van.
   ‘We actually get to live in there?’ He was looking more unruly than usual, hair messy, T-shirt back to front and the laces of his trainers untied. I needed to give that boy a lesson in grooming – I always made sure my blue-grey fur looked its best. Mind you, his parents were a bit scruffy too. Only Viola was neat and tidy.
   ‘Yes, dear, it’s our camper van,’ Mrs Clover said. ‘We’re sleeping in it at the campsite.’ The Clovers were going on holiday. ‘Right, well children, chop chop, we must finish packing.’
   ‘I’ll miss you, Alfie,’ Stanley said, picking me up. I purred. I would miss the Clovers too.
   As Stanley put me down, he and Mr Clover went back into the house.
   ‘Come along, dear,’ Mrs Clover said. Viola looked glum. ‘Whatever is wrong? Don’t you want to go on holiday?’
   ‘No, I mean yes, I really do. Oh, it doesn’t matter,’ Viola sighed as she hurried after her mum.
   After they’d gone, I decided to look around the house on wheels. I climbed in through an open window and my eyes widened. There was a small kitchen area, a room with a toilet, and a table with bench seats round it. Being a cat, I wasn’t sure where they would sleep, but I assumed they would work that out.
   The sun streamed through one of the windows. Tucked down the side of the bench was a cushion. It was a perfect spot, so I thought I’d just enjoy a bit of sunbathing before the Clovers left.
   I opened my eyes slowly, blinked, yawned and stretched. I felt my stomach lurch as I became aware of motion. I was moving. How was I moving? I sat up but didn’t recognise my surroundings, so I jumped up and looked out of a window – I could see flashes of trees whizzing past. Yikes! I was in the van! I wasn’t meant to be here!
   ‘YELP!’
   ‘Alfie?’ Viola said.
   I looked and saw Viola and Stanley sitting at a pull-out table, playing a game. Mr Clover was driving, Mrs Clover sat next to him.
   ‘Oh yikes,’ Stanley said. ‘Alfie, what are you doing here?’
   ‘Miaow.’ Obviously I’d fallen asleep and woken up in a moving house. Oh well, no problem, they couldn’t have gone far.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_004.jpg]
   ‘We’ve been driving for three hours,’ Viola said.
   Three hours?
   She bit her lip.‘Mum?’ Carefully, she moved nearer the front.
   ‘Yes, dear?’
   ‘It seems that Alfie has accidentally stowed away.’
   ‘What? WHAT? Dear, stop the van, we have to stop the van. STOP.’
   ‘Oh goodness, oh goodness.’
   Whilst Mr and Mrs Clover panicked, I started cleaning myself. I couldn’t believe I’d been asleep all that time.
   ‘Dad, just pull over when it’s safe,’ Viola said sensibly.
   A few minutes later, Mr Clover found a lay-by.
   ‘We’ll just have to go home,’ Mr Clover said.
   ‘But we’re nearly there!’ Viola pointed out.
   ‘Then we at least need to phone Alfie’s family,’ Mrs Clover said. ‘The number’s on his collar.’
   ‘Yes, let’s phone them. That’s exactly what we’ll do,’ Mr Clover said.
   ‘But then what?’ Mrs Clover asked.
   ‘Just explain we’re in Devon and that Alfie will have to come on holiday with us for a week,’ Viola suggested.
   ‘But a cat, on holiday. I mean whoever heard of such a thing?’ Mrs Clover shrieked.
   Actually, I had been on holiday before, but I couldn’t tell them that.
   ‘Mum, Dad, calm down,’ Stanley said.
   Viola’s plan sounded good to me. I’d miss my other families but a holiday might just be what the vet ordered.
   ‘OK.’ Mrs Clover calmed down and phoned my home. I was going on holiday!
   For the rest of the journey, I was as excited as Stanley. Only Viola was quiet.
   We stopped by a sign that saidCurly Wood Campsite and were greeted by a man and a woman.
   ‘Mr Clover and family.’ Mr Clover got out of the van.
   ‘Welcome to Curly Wood. I’m Mr Green the campsite manager, and this is my wife, Mrs Green.’ The man who welcomed them was tall and thin with a funny moustache on his face which looked a bit like a slug. I hoped it wasn’t a slug. The lady was wearing a tool belt.
   ‘Thank you,’ Mrs Clover said.
   ‘I need to undertake a routine check of your vehicle,’ said Mr Green. He pulled a book out of his shirt pocket.
   ‘Oh, OK.’ Mrs Clover looked unsure.
   ‘Nice camper van.’ He climbed in and came face to face with me. He jumped; I put a paw up in greeting. ‘A cat?’
   ‘Yes, funny story, he sort of ended up here, we didn’t mean to bring him—’ Mr Clover explained.
   ‘I don’t think visiting cats are permitted on our campsite,’ Mr Green said. ‘We have a cat called Humphrey but he lives with us.’ He began looking through his book. ‘We do allow well-behaved dogs, although they must be kept on a lead at all times, but …’ He scratched his head.
   Dogs? Did I hear right? I wasn’t sure I wanted to stay now.
   ‘We promise he’ll be no trouble,’ Stanley said.
   The man looked at him, took a whistle out of his pocket and blew it loudly. We all jumped.
   ‘I’m looking through my rule book and I appreciate silence.’
   After a while, he put the book back in his shirt pocket.‘I am not happy but unfortunately I can’t find anything in the rule book about visiting cats. And I can’t break the rules when enforcing the rules, so, against my wishes, he can stay.’
   ‘Hooray,’ Stanley said; he was silenced by a look.
   ‘But one whiff of trouble and you’ll be out.’ Mr Green pointed his whistle at me. ‘Enjoy your stay.’ As he left the van, he asked Mrs Green to show us where to park.
   We stood outside the van; we were going to look around the campsite.
   ‘Alfie, you need to stay inside,’ Mr Clover said, lifting me back in. ‘We assured your family we’d take care of you and we can’t risk you getting lost. Or worse,’ he finished.
   What could be worse than getting lost? Some holiday this was! But then I noticed an open window. When the coast was clear, I jumped out. There were tents, caravans and other camper vans and in the distance I could see the wood. It was lovely—
   ‘Hisss.’
   I stopped, turned and found myself staring at a plump ginger cat.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_005.jpg]
   ‘Hello.’ My legs trembled.
   ‘What are you doing here?’ he asked nastily.
   I flashed him my most charming smile.‘I’m Alfie; it’s very nice to meet you.’
   ‘I said what are you doing here?’
   ‘I accidentally came on holiday.’
   I wondered if he would attack; he was huge.
   ‘This is my campsite and I don’t need the likes of you on it,’ he said.
   ‘Humphrey?’ a woman’s voice said. The cat softened as he turned round. ‘Humphrey, it’s teatime,’ the voice repeated.
   He narrowed his eyes at me then ran off.
   I felt unsettled by my encounter so I went off in search of Stanley and Viola. I came across a small building and snuck in through an open door. Mr and Mrs Clover were sitting at a table with some other adults. I stalked, unobserved, to the back of the room and found Stanley and Viola. Stanley was laughing and joking; there were two other boys and a girl with them. Viola hung back– she seemed to be hiding behind her long hair. I wanted to go to her but Stanley spotted me first.
   ‘Alfie,’ he whispered, scooping me up and hiding me under his jacket. ‘If anyone sees you, you’ll be in trouble.’
   ‘Who’s that?’ a boy asked.
   ‘Alfie, our cat from home,’ Stanley explained. “Well, not exactly our cat. You see, he is and he isn’t.’ I saw the other children look at Stanley in confusion. ‘Oh, but that’s a bit of a long story—’
   ‘Hey, best not to let Uncle Green see him in here,’ the boy interrupted. ‘Let’s go outside, quick.’
   The boy had an accent I hadn’t heard before.
   ‘Cute cat,’ the girl whispered, as the smallest boy stood beside her. I saw Viola’s cheeks redden as they did when she was around new people.
   ‘Thank you,’ she said quietly, with a smile.
   She could be awfully shy, poor thing. I knew she was nervous about starting her new school when they got back too. I rubbed against her legs to offer support.
   Stanley walked out with the boy and girl next to him and Viola went to follow, but Mrs Clover stopped her.
   ‘Ah, Viola, there you are. Mr Green has said you can see the piano now.’
   ‘Piano?’ said Viola.
   ‘Yes, we found a campsite that had one,’ her mother explained. ‘So that you could practise while we were away.’
   ‘Oh,’ said Viola in a small voice.
   It was clear that she wanted to come with us but, instead, she followed her mum to the piano.
   Chapter 2 [Ea?oeiea: i_006.jpg]
   As I wandered outside the following morning, I saw Humphrey glaring at me.‘Hi Humphrey.’
   ‘You still here?’ he replied.
   ‘Well, I don’t really have a choice,’ I pointed out. ‘It would be nice if we could be friends?’ I raised my whiskers hopefully.
   ‘I already told you – I don’t like other cats on my campsite.’
   I was about to argue, but then rounding the corner were the three children from last night. I discovered, after Stanley had got me safely out of the clubhouse, that they were Nathan, Emily and Jack. Nathan was the oldest at twelve– he was staying with his uncle and aunt, Mr and Mrs Green. He had come from America, which was very far away. Emily and Jack were brother and sister. Emily was ten and Jack was seven. As soon as he spotted them, Humphrey changed; he was nice to children. Stanley stepped out of the van.
   ‘Hey, Stan, meet Humphrey the campsite cat. He’s really cool,’ Nathan said.
   I miaowed. I was cool too.
   ‘Wow, he’s big. Alfie and he can be friends,’ Stanley said, picking me up.
   ‘What are we going to do now?’ Jack asked excitedly.
   ‘There isn’t a whole lot to do here,’ Nathan said. ‘My uncle sure likes his rules, but we can go to the playground, I guess.’
   ‘Lead the way. I’m an adventurer and generally I can find adventures everywhere,’ Stanley said confidently.
   ‘Yay!’ Jack said. I wasn’t sure why.
   ‘Vi, are you coming?’ Stanley shouted into the van.
   Viola emerged, smiled shyly at the others and they all set off. I started to follow.
   ‘You’re coming too?’ Humphrey asked, not sounding thrilled.
   ‘Yes, I’m an adventurer’s cat, after all,’ I replied huffily.
   The playground had seen better days. There were a couple of swings, a slide which was scuffed and rusty, a roundabout which creaked when it moved and a see-saw.
   ‘We don’t have much to work with to make an adventure,’ Stanley said as he surveyed it.
   ‘I told you that, pal,’ Nathan said, patting his shoulder.
   Jack was on the swing, asking his sister to give him a push, and Viola, I noticed, hung back again. I went to rub myself against her legs, but then I spotted something under a nearby bush. Viola followed me as I dived under it.
   ‘It’s a football,’ Viola said, as I nudged it to her with my nose.
   ‘Nice one, Vi,’ Stanley said. ‘Right, we can make an assault course.’
   ‘What’s an assault course?’ Jack asked, wide-eyed.
   ‘It’s like a race where we do different things. ‘We can start the course here.’ He walked towards some wooden stumps with a bench at the end. They were all different heights. ‘Right, follow me!’ he said as he climbed from the bench to the tallest one. ‘It’s going to be cool.’ He excitedly explained to everyone how it would work. ‘Right, let’s go,’ Stanley announced.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_007.jpg]
   They took it in turns. They had to jump over the bars of the roundabout while the other children spun it, then when a bit dizzy they had to stand on the swing and do ten swings without falling off; run across the see-saw, and finally walk up the slide with the football and then throw it between the swings, like a goal. I had to admit it was impressive, although it didn’t look safe.
   ‘There’ll be trouble,’ Humphrey grumbled, coming up beside me.
   ‘Why?’ I asked.
   ‘It’s against the rules. Mr Green’s rule book clearly states that the playground must only be used as it should be.’
   ‘But he’s not here,’ I pointed out.
   ‘Don’t say I didn’t warn you,’ Humphrey replied before climbing a tree to watch. I thought about joining him but then I’m not exactly a fan of trees, having been stuck up one in the past, so I stayed on land.
   The children were having a lovely time and Viola started to smile at last. But then I heard,‘peep, peep, peep’. The whistle was loud and a bit too close for comfort.
   Jack, who had beenstanding on the swing, fell off. Emily and Viola rushed to him; he’d landed on his bottom.
   ‘Peep, peep, peep. Just what do you think you are doing?’ Mr Green shouted.
   ‘Um, Uncle, we were just having a race,’ Nathan explained.
   ‘Nathan, you should know better. When we invited you to stay we expected you to obey the rules.’ He pulled his book out. ‘You have broken rules 77, 89, 111 and many more. I’ll take that—’ He snatched the football out of Stanley’s arms. ‘Balls can only be played with in the designated ball area, rule 199.’
   ‘Wow, he likes his rules,’ Stanley said after he’d gone. I miaowed in agreement.
   ‘Boy does he.’ Nathan looked downcast. ‘It’s not like I even asked to come to stay. I was hoping to spend the summer back home in the US, playing with my friends, but no, because my parents were busy with work, I end up miles from home, in a caravan with Aunt and Uncle Green!’
   ‘Sorry to hear that, mate.’ Stanley squeezed Nathan’s shoulder sympathetically.
   ‘What shall we do now?’ Jack asked. Viola looked at Emily but stayed silent.
   ‘I know a real good trick,’ Nathan said, suddenly grinning.
   ‘What?’ The others crowded round him.
   ‘Follow me to the shower block and I’ll show you.’
   They all walked off and I made to follow them. I felt Humphrey come up beside me.
   ‘Hiss,’ he said.
   ‘What?’ I asked.
   ‘This is not a good idea. Nathan’s unhappy and I think he’s looking for trouble.’
   ‘What’s the matter with him?’ I asked, interested. I was a cat who always helped humans in trouble, after all.
   ‘He’s homesick. Poor kid got sent over here because his parents are working away and he misses home.’
   ‘That’s something I have some experience of.’ I explained about Stanley and Viola and how I’d accidentally ended up in the van.
   ‘We’d better go and keep an eye on them; this isn’t going to end well.’ He bounded off and I followed him.
   Nathan led them to the back of the shower block. He giggled as the others watched him turn a big tap. Four people, wrapped in towels, heads covered in shampoo, ran out screaming.
   ‘It’s freezing,’ someone cried.
   ‘The water’s gone cold,’ someone else shouted. Lots of voices shrieked all at once.
   ‘You did that?’ Viola asked. She looked cross. Nathan fell about laughing.
   ‘But we’ll get into trouble,’ Emily said. Jack looked as if he might cry.
   ‘Run,’ Stanley said; they all ran. I heard the whistle and Mr Green rounded the corner, blowing it furiously. Angry people crowded round him as he tried to pacify them, with Humphrey at his feet.
   I found the children sitting outside our van. None of them looked happy.
   ‘What did you do that for?’ Stanley demanded. ‘We could have got into big trouble.’
   ‘I don’t know; sometimes I just can’t help myself,’ Nathan admitted. ‘I guess I did it because I miss home.’
   ‘But getting us into trouble isn’t going to help you,’ Stanley pointed out.
   ‘Sorry,’ he mumbled.
   ‘Look, we need to have fun but not get into too much trouble. I know, I have a lot of experience of trouble,’ Stanley said. He did.
   ‘What can we do now?’ Jack asked.
   ‘We can play table tennis – there’s a table in a room by the clubhouse. We’re allowed,’ Nathan said.
   ‘Yay!’ Jack was excited again. As they stood up, Mrs Clover appeared.
   ‘Viola, it’s time for piano practice – come along.’
   Viola looked sadly at the other children as they all ran off.
   ‘But—’ she started.
   ‘Chop chop, Viola,’ her mother said.
   ‘I’ll never make friends at this rate,’ I heard her mumble.
   ‘What, dear?’ Mrs Clover asked.
   ‘Nothing, Mum,’ Viola sighed.
   Chapter 3 [Ea?oeiea: i_008.jpg]
   Viola was still unhappy the following morning. And no one but me seemed to notice. Mr Clover was loving the fresh air; Mrs Clover was drawing– something she said she never normally had time for. Stanley was happy – all the children were going on a campsite treasure hunt, and he enjoyed being with his new friends. I needed to do something for Viola – it seemed I was her only chance.
   The children waited by the clubhouse. Jack was bouncing around, Emily hung back, a bit like Viola– they were so alike they could have been friends, if only one of them would speak! I felt my fur tingle as an idea started coming to me.
   ‘Guys, listen up. This treasure hunt sucks,’ Nathan said.
   ‘What doessucks mean?’ Jack asked.
   ‘It means it’s rubbish,’ Stanley explained – being an adventurer in training meant he was good at international languages.
   ‘Yeah, it’s rubbish. The prize is some dumb candy.’
   ‘What’s candy?’ Jack asked.
   ‘Sweets,’ Stanley said.
   ‘So, anyway, here’s my plan. How about we all pretend not to understand the clues? It’ll be so funny,’ Nathan suggested.
   ‘That does sound funny,’ Stanley said.
   ‘Will we get into trouble?’ Viola asked.
   ‘Nah, Uncle Green will just think we’re stupid,’ Nathan said.
   ‘But I really like sweets.’ Jack sounded upset.
   ‘You can get candy anytime but this will be more fun, trust me,’ Nathan said.
   I miaowed– it sounded strange to me – like it could get them into BIG trouble. They really shouldn’t trust him.
   ‘But, but—’ Jack looked as if he might cry. Emily put her hand on his shoulder.
   ‘Great, so we’re all agreed. This will be so cool.’ Nathan gave all the children a high-five.
   Mr Green approached with a girl I hadn’t seen before. She was about Stanley’s age, with dark hair in bunches and wearing dungarees.
   ‘Ah, you are all here,’ Mr Green said, blowing his whistle. ‘I do like punctuality. Come on, line up, line up.’
   ‘I’m Poppy,’ the new girl said. Stanley and Nathan looked at each other, about to tell her what they were up to, but Nathan put his finger to his lip.
   ‘Yes, sorry, this is Poppy. Her family just arrived so luckily she is just in time for the treasure hunt.’ He blew his whistle again. ‘Not only do we get some fresh air but also we get to exercise the grey matter.’
   ‘What?’ Jack looked terrified. I thought he probably wouldn’t have to pretend not to get the clues.
   ‘Your brain,’ Emily explained as Mr Green set off.
   I followed them, trying to keep myself hidden from Mr Green. I wasn’t sure if cats were allowed on the treasure hunt. I was pretty sure I wasn’t.
   ‘Right, first clue. What has leaves but isn’t a tree?’ Mr Green asked.
   ‘A table?’ Nathan asked. Stanley giggled behind his hand.
   ‘No, try again,’ Mr Green said. They were standing by the bush which I was hiding under, and as I saw a piece of paper, I realised the answer. I tried to hide myself further as I saw Poppy’s hand reach in and retrieve the clue.
   ‘A plant! I’ve got it!’ she said triumphantly.
   ‘Well done, Poppy. At least someone here has some sense,’ Mr Green muttered. As Nathan smirked at Stanley, I saw the girls exchange a look. They didn’t seem happy. ‘Right, on we go. I have pegs but I don’t hang washing,’ Mr Green said.
   ‘A—’ Viola started to say, but Stanley pushed her out of the way. ‘Ahh,’ she said, nearly falling on me.
   ‘I’m not sure I understand. What do you mean by pegs?’ Stanley asked. ‘Is it actual washing?’
   ‘Well done for trying, Stanley, but no.’ Mr Green sounded kind. Viola turned pink and Emily looked at the floor. This wasn’t funny. Not at all.
   ‘A tent!’ Poppy shouted triumphantly, and she ran round the tents until she found one with a clue pinned to it. She handed the clue to Mr Green.
   ‘Well done again, Poppy. I really can’t understand why no one else can get the clues.’ Mr Green scratched his head and looked puzzled. Nathan smiled again, and although he hadn’t welcomed me with open arms, I felt very sorry for Mr Green.
   ‘Ah, this is a good one. Right, what is a cat’s favourite food?’ Mr Green looked hopeful, but the boys looked blankly at him. Viola and Emily were clearly uncomfortable and I knew the answer! Pilchards. Not that I knew where to find them. I only wished I did!
   ‘Cat food,’ Nathan said. Mr Green shook his head.
   ‘Is it fish?’ Poppy asked, running towards the shop. The other children watched as she went to the tins of fish and found a clue underneath them. ‘Got it!’
   Mr Green looked relieved, and quickly carried on. But the next clues were equally embarrassing. Mr Green patted Poppy’s head each time she got the clues whilst the other children looked blank.
   ‘Right, last clue. Beneath the house that isn’t a house,’ Mr Green announced. ‘Let’s see if someone other than Poppy can get this one.’
   ‘I don’t understand,’ Nathan said. I was feeling cross with the children now. They weren’t being nice to either Mr Green or Poppy. I saw that Viola and Emily weren’t happy as they both now stared at the ground and Jack looked close to tears. This wasn’t fun.
   ‘Well, it’s quite simple. Beneath the house that isn’t a house,’ Mr Green repeated. He sounded impatient.
   ‘I know, it’s under this caravan!’ Poppy exclaimed and she crawled on the floor, retrieving a bag of sweets.
   ‘Well done, Poppy.’ Mr Green smiled with relief.
   As soon as he’d gone, Nathan and Stanley started laughing.
   ‘That was such fun,’ Nathan said.
   ‘Why are you laughing?’ Poppy asked.
   ‘Well, you see before you arrived we decided to play a trick on Mr Green by not getting any of the clues right,’ Stanley explained.
   ‘You mean you did it on purpose?’ Poppy said.
   ‘Yes,’ Viola said. ‘It was Nathan’s idea.’ She looked embarrassed.
   ‘I didn’t want to do it – I like sweets,’ Jack said. Emily patted his shoulder again.
   ‘Well, I shan’t be sharing with you, it wasn’t nice,’ Poppy said, clutching the sweets to her chest. The others looked a bit embarrassed.
   ‘I’m sorry, we didn’t mean to be mean,’ Emily said.
   ‘We really didn’t,’ Viola added. The two girls exchanged a shy smile.
   ‘Don’t worry, I’m sure we’ve got sweets in the van and I’ll share them with all of you; even you, Poppy,’ Stanley said. ‘Come on.’
   I started after them but a cat-shaped shadow loomed.
   ‘Hello, Humphrey,’ I said.
   ‘What business did you have going on the treasure hunt?’ he asked.
   ‘I didn’t know I wasn’t allowed.’
   ‘I am getting fed up with you being on my territory.’ He flicked his tail in anger. This was one mean cat.
   ‘Look, one of my children, Viola, is unhappy, so I need to stay close to see if she’s all right.’
   ‘Um … Well I do like children, but I’d still prefer it if you could try to keep out of my way as much as possible.’
   I bounded off. I didn’t need asking twice.
   ‘Right, dear,’ Mr Clover announced. He was wearing a rucksack, a big-brimmed hat and carrying a walking stick.
   ‘What are you doing?’ Mrs Clover asked. She was sitting in a chair with a big drawing pad on her lap.
   ‘The children told me the treasure hunt was a bit of a disaster, so I am taking them on an adventure, to forage in the wood for fruit or whatever. We might even see a bear,’ he laughed.
   ‘Oh no!’ Jack hid behind his sister.
   ‘It’ll be fine, young man, now go and tell your parents and meet me here as quick as you can.’ Stanley and Viola were giggling excitedly as they waited for their friends.
   ‘Viola,’ Mrs Clover said. ‘You need to do your piano now.’
   ‘What?’ Viola looked at her mother.
   ‘Piano now. It’s the only time the clubhouse is free.’
   ‘But I was going with Dad and the others.’ Her face fell.
   ‘Nonsense, you can do that anytime – come along.’
   I sat next to Viola on the piano stool. I had been desperate to go with the others but Viola needed me. Despite the fact that she was upset, she was playing beautifully.
   ‘Oh, Alfie,’ she said. She stopped playing and started stroking me. ‘I do love the piano but I wish I could have gone with the others. If I can’t make friends here, how will I ever manage at school?’ She paused.
   ‘Purr,’ I said in understanding.
   ‘I wish I was like Stanley – he makes friends so easily – but I really struggle and now I am in here on my own and they’re off having fun. I’ll never have any friends and I’ll probably be on my own for ever!’ She bashed the piano in frustration. I curled on to her lap to comfort her. She sighed and started playing again but I could see she was playing through tears.
   That night, the children all sat round a table in the clubroom. I had snuck in again, getting better at this every day. They were still talking about foraging and what they had managed to collect, so Viola felt more left out than ever. No one noticed, but Emily kept shooting her worried glances. I nudged Viola but she didn’t even look at Emily. She was intently staring at the table. I jumped on to her lap and she petted me. I also had a good view of the stage as a spotlight – which was actually Mrs Green holding a torch – shone on it and the curtains were pulled back to reveal Mr Green in a massive top hat andcloak, waving a magic wand. Everyone clapped, although Viola’s was half-hearted.
   ‘Welcome to my Magnificent Magic Show,’ Mr Green said in a funny voice. ‘I am Magician Green.’ He took his hat off and put it on the table. Nathan rolled his eyes at Stanley.
   ‘What?’ Stanley whispered.
   ‘This is going to be awful,’ Nathan replied.
   ‘Shush,’ Poppy hissed.
   ‘For my first trick, I shall join these silk scarves,’ he announced with a flourish as he pulled a number of brightly coloured scarves out of his hat. He showed the audience how they were separate. Then he held them in one hand and waved his wand over them.
   ‘Abracadabra,’ he said, grabbing the end of one scarf; the rest fluttered to the floor.
   ‘Oh dear,’ he said, hurriedly picking them up. He tried again but the same thing happened. I saw Mrs Clover cover her mouth with her hand and Mr Clover’s mouth twitched. The children all looked confused as Mr Green turned his back and hastily tied a few of them together. Despite the fact thatwe’d all seen him doing this, everyone clapped.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_009.jpg]
   ‘Thank you, and now for the classic trick of pulling a rabbit out of a hat.’
   My goodness, I thought, a rabbit? I wasn’t sure I was keen on rabbits.
   ‘But as we don’t have a rabbit I am going to produce a cat from my hat.’ Mr Green laughed as did everyone else. Viola looked at me. Mr Green showed the audience that the hat was empty, waved his wand over it and said his magic words. I heard a light laughter start from the adults and then Stanley and Nathan shouted.
   ‘He’s there!’
   As Mr Green was looking in his empty hat, Humphrey had come round to the front of the stage and sat cleaning his paws. He yawned and then lay down.
   ‘What?’ Mr Green asked.
   ‘Humphrey – he’s on the stage!’ Nathan shouted and Mr Green looked over and, dithering for a moment, picked him up and shoved him into the hat.
   ‘MIAOW!’ Humphrey didn’t sound happy as he jumped straight out. The adults were all beside themselves with laughter now and I wasn’t sure whether to feel sorry for Mr Green or not.
   ‘For my final trick, I have a length of rope.’ He held it up. ‘I am going to cut it into three.’ He took some scissors and cut it. ‘Well, now, if we all say the magic words together it will rejoin.’ He looked hopefully at the audience. ‘Right, one, two, three …’
   ‘Abracadabra,’ everyone shouted.
   Mr Green closed his eyes and held up the end of the rope. He opened them to see the other two pieces flutter to the floor.
   ‘That wasn’t supposed to happen,’ he said, looking crestfallen. Although Viola was still looking miserable, I put my paw on her arm, and she looked at me, then at poor Mr Green, and she started clapping loudly. Emily’s eyes widened and she joined in. Then the rest of our table, except for Nathan, started cheering and the adults followed suit and Mr Green began to smile. Poor Mrs Green looked confused, though, as she kept the torch shining on her husband.
   When it was quiet again, Emily turned to Viola.
   ‘Well done – it was good you clapped, especially after the whole treasure hunt thing.’
   Viola looked at me and smiled.
   ‘Thanks, Emily, I felt we owed it to him,’ Viola replied.
   At least I knew what I needed to do. I needed to get Emily and Viola to become friends and then Viola would realise that she could easily make friends at her new school too. It sounded simple but I still had to figure out just how…
   Chapter 4 [Ea?oeiea: i_010.jpg]
   I decided to take one of my nine lives in my paws and seek out Humphrey. I needed a friend and wanted to try to win grumpy Humphrey round. I found him cleaning his fur by the Greens’ caravan.
   ‘Good morning,’ I said cheerfully.
   ‘What do you want?’ he asked.
   ‘Viola is unhappy. She doesn’t find it easy to make new friends. But, I have a plan to cheer her up.’
   ‘A plan?’
   ‘Yes, it’s what I do and I need your help. Anyway, Emily, one of the other girls, she’s a bit shy too and I think they would make lovely friends but I need to get them together.’
   ‘How?’
   ‘That’s the thing – I’m not sure yet but I thought you might have some ideas.’
   ‘Me?’ Humphrey looked uncertain.
   ‘I wouldn’t ask if it wasn’t important and it’s not for me but for Viola.’
   ‘Humph.’ Humphrey didn’t look happy. ‘I will help with the girl …’ He sounded reluctant.
   That was as good as I could expect, and it had to be better than nothing, surely?
   Help also came in the guise of Poppy. She was bossy and didn’t like sharing but when it came to adults, she was always very nice. She even told Mr Green it was the best magic show she’d ever seen and I couldn’t believe that was true.
   I heard a knock on the van door; Mrs Clover opened it.
   ‘Hello, Mrs Clover, it’s a nice day, isn’t it? I like your hair, have you had it styled?’ Poppy asked.
   ‘Oh well, not really, dear; do come in.’ Mrs Clover stood aside and patted her hair, which was a terrible mess as usual.
   ‘Hi, Poppy,’ Stanley said.
   ‘I’ve organised a Swingballtournament,’ Poppy told him.
   ‘Is that an invitation or an order?’ Stanley asked. I wasn’t sure he liked Poppy.
   ‘We’ll just put our shoes on and come,’ Viola said. She swatted Stanley on the arm.
   I followed them over to Poppy’s caravan; it was one of the best ones on the site, according to her, anyway. I had never seen a Swingballbefore– it was a pole with a string and a tennis ball attached. Poppy was brandishing two bats. Nathan, Jack and Emily were crowded round.
   ‘Right, as I was explaining, the winner of each game will go on to play each other until we have a final winner. I’ll play Jack, then the winner plays Stanley, then Emily, Nathan and Viola.’
   ‘Does that make sense?’ Stanley asked.
   ‘No idea, but let’s get on with it – we’ll be here all vacation otherwise,’ Nathan mumbled.
   ‘Wow, you’re good,’ Jack said as, after failing to hit the ball more than once, Poppy was declared the winner of the first game.
   Feeling like having a bit of fun, I jumped for the ball, missed it and slipped. Luckily, I managed to land on my feet.
   ‘Yowl!’ I cried. The children laughed.
   ‘Alfie, we need to take this seriously,’ Poppy said. So I leapt again. This time I managed to swipe the ball with my paw and everyone clapped.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_011.jpg]
   ‘Right, Alfie, enough messing around, we really DO have to take this seriously,’ Poppy said. She was SO bossy.
   ‘Miaow!’ I was having fun.
   ‘Oh, let Alfie play. He’s funny,’ Stanley said.
   ‘No, Stanley Clover, this is a serious game for people only.’
   As I raised my tail in anger, I wondered if perhaps Poppy and Mr Green were related after all.
   I chased some leaves, cleaned myself and watched as Viola was declared the winner.
   ‘Wow, Vi, you were awesome,’ Stanley said. I pricked my ears up. This should help her confidence.
   ‘Yeah, I have to hand it to you – you beat me fair and square,’ Nathan said good-naturedly.
   ‘You were brilliant, Viola,’ Emily stammered.
   Viola beamed.
   ‘The prize is that the winner gets to choose what we do next,’ Poppy declared. ‘So, Viola, it’s up to you.’
   ‘But that’s no good – she’ll only have to go and practise,’ Stanley said. I wanted to cover my ears with my paws; that was the last thing Viola needed to hear. Viola looked upset and ran off.
   ‘Stanley,’ Emily said, voice barely above a whisper.
   ‘What? What did I do?’ Stanley asked, looking confused.
   ‘OK, so Stanley, as her brother, then you get to choose,’ Poppy decided.
   ‘But shouldn’t someone go after Viola?’ Emily asked, but no one seemed to hear.
   ‘It’s calledSpyhunter,’ Stanley said as they all stood on the roundabout in the playground. Stanley was wearing a hat with flappy ears – one I often wore when Stanley dressed me up as his Adventurer’s cat – and holding a magnifying glass. ‘I’ll be the hunter and you guys are all spies so you have to hide andI’ll catch you.’
   ‘So, basically we are playing hide-and-seek,’ Poppy said.
   ‘No, we’re playingSpyhunter, it’s totally different. It’s an adventurer’s game,’ Stanley argued. He stood facing a tree trunk as Stanley counted to one hundred. Then he ran off; I struggled to keep up.
   ‘Ha, spy, got you,’ he said as he found Jack hiding under a bush, his bottom sticking out. I think it was the worst hiding I’d ever seen.
   He managed to round up Poppy and Emily fairly quickly, so that just left Nathan. We all searched for him, looking everywhere we could think of, until the only place that remained was the clubhouse.
   ‘I’m going in,’ Stanley announced.
   ‘But we’re not allowed. Remember, Mr Green said we could only go in there with adult supervision.’ Emily looked worried. The other children agreed.
   ‘OK, you guys stay here and I’ll go.’ Stanley tried to look brave as he pushed open the door. I followed him inside. We looked under all the tables, by the small bar and even behind the piano but there was no sign of Nathan. Suddenly, we spotted a moving curtain, which hung behind the stage.
   ‘Ah ha, there he is,’ Stanley whispered and gesturing for me to be quiet, we made our way over. ‘Got you, spy,’ Stanley shouted triumphantly.
   ‘You sure have.’ Nathan smiled. He was sitting by a big box which seemed to have wooden people in it, attached to strings. I poked my nose into the box. I had never seen such things before. Just as I was about to take a closer look, ‘PEEP!’ I jumped and landed on my tail. Ouch.
   ‘What are you two doing here?’ Mr Green’s voice boomed.
   ‘Sorry, Uncle, we were playing hide—’
   ‘I don’t care – you shouldn’t be here. Nathan, all you do is get into trouble, and as for you.’ He pointed at Stanley. ‘I just don’t know. I shall be speaking to your parents. Now scram – I have my important puppet show tonight, so I need to concentrate on that. I’ll work out whatto do with you later.’
   ‘Is everything all right?’ Mrs Green appeared. She was holding a hammer. ‘I’ve just come from fixing a shelf in the shop,’ she explained.
   ‘No, it is not.’ Mr Green pointed at Nathan and Stanley.
   ‘Oh, don’t worry about that now. You need to be calm for your big show tonight. Come with me and I’ll make you a nice cup of tea.’ Mrs Green winked at the boys before leading him away.
   ‘Now we’ve had it,’ Stanley said.
   ‘He might have to send me back to the States now,’ Nathan said happily.
   ‘So is that what this is all about?’ said Stanley. ‘It’s all right for you, but I don’t actually want to get thrown off the campsite – my parents will go mad.’
   ‘Hey, calm down, I’ll take the blame. Although you might change your mind when you have to sit through the worst puppet show in the world ever.’
   ‘Is it that bad?’
   ‘You thought his magic show was pretty crummy?’ Nathan asked.
   Stanley nodded.
   ‘Well, this is a thousand times worse. Tonight is going to be the opposite of fun.’ Nathan patted Stanley on the shoulder.
   I could feel my fur tingle. I was thinking of a plan, and it was almost there. It was so brilliant. The puppets, Viola and the piano. In order to build Viola’s confidence, what would be better than for her to play the piano in the clubhouse? But Mr Green had a monopoly on the entertainment – although I wasn’t quite sure how entertaining he actually was – so how could it be achieved? I rushed off to find Humphrey.
   He was outside one of the tents, eating as usual.
   ‘Hello,’ I said, trying to sound charming.
   ‘What now?’ Humphrey asked. He finished eating and cleaned his whiskers.
   ‘I really need your help. You see I have a plan to help Viola but I’m not sure how to go about it.’ I outlined my idea.
   ‘OK, so in order for your plan to work, we need to sabotage Mr Green’s puppet show?’
   Humphrey tilted his head, as if he was weighing it up.‘If it’s for the girl, then I’ll help. I’ve got a bit of a soft spot for her. Look, why don’t we sneak into the clubhouse and hide the puppets.’ As he explained the way my plan could work, I was overjoyed. It turned out Humphrey was quite a clever cat after all.
   I lay on one of the benches in the van. It had been exhausting hiding the puppets. We had to get them in our mouths and drag them unseen to the place Humphrey chose– under the caravan. And now all I had to do was to get Viola to play the piano. I wasn’t going to fail. Even Humphrey thought it could work.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_012.jpg]
   I followed my family to the clubhouse that evening. I was trembling with nerves and excitement. This was it, my big moment to help Viola.
   It was chaos. As everyone sat waiting for the entertainment, Mr Green was hysterical. His wife was trying to calm him down.
   ‘Nathan, are you sure you didn’t take my puppets?’ Mr Green asked.
   ‘No, Uncle. As soon as we left the clubhouse I went with Stanley to help his dad get food for supper.’
   The Clovers approached.
   ‘What seems to be the matter?’ Mr Clover asked.
   ‘I was supposed to perform my puppet show this evening, but somehow my puppets have disappeared. These boys were the last to see them.’ Mr Green pointed at Nathan and Stanley. Oops, I hadn’t thought about the boys getting into trouble.
   ‘Stanley, do you know anything about this?’ Mr Clover asked.
   ‘No, I really absolutely don’t. Dad, we’ve been with you all afternoon.’ Stanley stated.
   ‘Yes, that’s true; Mr Green actually Nathan was most helpful.’
   ‘What are we going to do?’ Mr Green shrieked. ‘We have a clubhouse full of people who need entertaining.’
   It was my big moment. Humphrey was sitting by the door. He raised his tail. I ran over to the piano, sat on the stool, raised my paw and bashed some keys.
   ‘Look,’ Jack said, pointing. ‘Alfie the cat is playing the piano.’ He laughed.
   I jumped on to the keys and tried to play more. Now everyone was laughing. Then, as I planned, Viola came and joined me. She stroked me, sat down beside me and started to play. As the most beautiful music filled the clubhouse, everyone was silent. When she finished her song, she stood up.
   ‘Oh no, please carry on,’ Mrs Green said. ‘I’ve never heard such wonderful playing.’
   ‘Humph,’ Mr Green said. ‘And that cat is not supposed to be here.’
   ‘Oh, one night won’t hurt. Please, Viola?’ Mrs Green said.
   ‘But …’ Viola stammered.
   ‘Go on, Vi, you’re the best piano prodigy ever,’ Stanley shouted and then the audience started chanting.
   ‘MORE, MORE, MORE.’ Viola blushed and smiled shyly at me. I gave her my most reassuring look, and tickled her with my tail.
   When Viola finished, everyone was standing up, clapping and cheering. Her cheeks were flushed pink and she was beaming. My plan had worked. As the evening drew to a close and everyone started to leave, she was congratulated over and over.
   Emily hovered.‘Wow, you are so good,’ she muttered.
   ‘Thank you,’ Viola blushed.
   ‘Maybe tomorrow, I mean, if it’s OK, can I come and watch you practise?’ Emily asked.
   ‘I’d love that.’ Viola’s smile stretched across her whole face and so did my grin.
   Chapter 5 [Ea?oeiea: i_013.jpg]
   I heard soft footsteps. Luckily my hearing is amazing, being a cat. I got up from where I’d been sleeping and spotted a shadowy figure: Stanley. He was quietly gathering food, putting it in a bag. What was he up to? No one else woke. Mr Clover was snoring – he sounded like a very noisy train, and if Mrs Clover and Viola could sleep through that, nothing would wake them. I crept outof the van after Stanley; I had a bad feeling.
   He made his way through the dark, using his torch, to the edge of the woods. I was surprised to see the rest of the children already there. They were wearing jumpers over their pyjamas as they laid out a rug and piled up snacks.
   ‘Our midnight feast,’ Nathan announced.
   ‘With ghost stories,’ Stanley added.
   ‘It’s going to be sooo cool!’ Jack said excitedly.
   ‘I know a really good story,’ Poppy said in her bossy voice.
   ‘Where’s Viola?’ Emily asked.
   ‘Oh. Oh dear, I forgot to tell her, what with so much going on,’ Stanley said. He hung his head.
   ‘Can’t you go and get her?’ Poppy suggested.
   ‘No way – if I go back, I might wake everyone up and then we’ll be in trouble. I’m really sorry, I didn’t mean to forget her.’
   ‘Right, I’m going to tell the first story,Nathan said, as he shone a torch at his face.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_014.jpg]
   ‘You look spooky,’ Jack said, snuggling closer to his sister.
   ‘Once there was this old house in the middle of a forest—’ Nathan started.
   ‘What was that?’ Jack almost jumped on to Emily’s lap.
   ‘I think it came from the wood; what is it?’ Poppy asked.
   ‘You don’t think it’s a bear?’ Jack asked.
   ‘Can I get on with my story?’ Nathan said, but a bright torch shone in the distance.
   ‘It’s Mr Green!’ Stanley exclaimed.
   ‘RUN!’ Nathan shouted.
   I wasn’t sure who to follow as they all ran off in different directions. I went after Stanley, who had followed Poppy. Mr Green was getting nearer, and I heard an almighty scream. Poppy was lying on the ground on top of a tent which she had managed to pull down. The people staying in the tent were trying to crawl out.
   ‘What on earth is going on?’ they screeched. Poppy burst into tears. Stanley went to help her and Mr Green appeared in his stripy pyjamas. Mrs Green ran up behind him.
   ‘What is happening?’ he bellowed. The commotion from the tent had woken the whole campsite and when I saw everyone coming out of their caravans, tents and vans, I knew we were in big trouble.
   ‘What on earth is going on, Stanley?’ Mrs Clover shouted as she, Mr Clover and Viola approached.
   ‘We thought we’d have a midnight feast,’ Stanley started.
   ‘It was my idea,’ Nathan admitted.
   ‘I got scared,’ Jack piped up. Emily was holding his hand. ‘I think there’s a grizzly bear in the wood.’
   ‘Midnight feasts are against the rules. Rule 378 to be precise,’ Mr Green stated.
   The adults looked sleepy and cross.
   ‘Stanley, I despair of you. At least Viola was sensible and didn’t go,’ Mrs Clover said.
   ‘I wasn’t invited,’ Viola shouted. She turned and ran back to the van.
   ‘Right, well, I have to help these poor people put their tent back up,’ Mrs Green said, holding a mallet.
   ‘Nathan, you go straight to bed, and as for the rest of you, I’ve a good mind to throw you out,’ Mr Green shouted.
   ‘Mr Green,’ Mrs Clover said. ‘I really am sorry and I promise that I’ll punish Stanley, and I’m sure the other parents will tell their children off too, but please let us stay – we are having such a wonderful holiday.’
   ‘Yes, it’s the nicest campsite we’ve ever been to,’ Poppy’s dad added. Soon all the adults were begging Mr Green for another chance.
   ‘I shall sleep on it tonight and we’ll see,’ Mr Green huffed.
   As the children were taken off to bed and the adults returned to where they were sleeping, I was wondering how a holiday could be so exhausting…
   My triumph with Viola and the piano-playing was short-lived. The following morning, everyone was tired and grumpy with each other.
   ‘Vi, I’m really sorry, I didn’t mean to leave you out but I just forgot.’
   ‘Great, so you can forget I exist. What am, the invisible sister? I know why I’ll never make any friends in my new school – no one ever even remembers me.’ She had tears in her eyes.
   ‘That’s not—’
   ‘Stop talking to me, Stan.’ I had never heard Viola so cross.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_015.jpg]
   I went to see the rest of the children, but they were all miserable and being kept a close eye on so I sought out Humphrey who was lying beside the clubhouse, in a sunny spot.
   ‘Hello,’ I said.
   ‘What’s wrong with you?’ he asked.
   ‘The kids are in trouble again. Everyone’s miserable and I’m back to square one.’
   ‘Yes, I heard. Mr Green was raging about it this morning. Mrs Green had to give him four sausages to calm him down!’
   ‘He threatened to throw us out.’
   ‘He won’t, though, Mrs Green will see to that.’
   ‘I just don’t know what to do. I thought I’d helped Viola but now, with her being left out, she’s upset again!’
   ‘Humans aren’t as clever as us cats, which is the problem. Look, why don’t I give you a tour of my favourite spots? Maybe it’ll help you come up with ideas.’ I was startled. Was Humphrey actually being nice to me?
   ‘But don’t get any ideas. I’m only doing what any decent cat would do,’ he added.
   We sat under one of the fattest bushes I’d ever seen. As I swiped at a fly and pulled on some leaves, I did start to feel better. We’d been almost round the whole campsite, and very pleasant it had been too.
   ‘The thing is, Alfie, that Viola is worried about her new school and making friends, and this holiday is making it worse because she hasn’t been able to join in,’ said Humphrey.
   ‘Yeah, the piano practice. Her parents make her do it when the others are having fun. If she practised early in the morning then she’s free all day, but no one seems to have thought of that.’
   [Ea?oeiea: i_016.jpg]
   ‘It’s a bit late now. You’ve only got a even at this late couple of days left. But if she could be more involved with the other children, stage, she might feel better about starting school.’
   ‘Exactly. Which is why I thought last night was such a good idea. Emily reached out to her but the midnight feast ruined everything.’
   ‘Hmmm, it’s not an easy one. Let’s go to the playground, I’ll show you my favourite tree. It’s not too high, before you start getting funny.’
   I sat on a low branch; Humphrey was above me. It was such a lovely day and we could see much of the campsite. The Clovers were sitting outside the van; they didn’t look happy, even from here.
   ‘Look,’ Humphrey said. ‘I think you’re right – we need to get Viola and Emily to be friends.’
   ‘But how?’ I asked.
   ‘We’ve got the rest of today to come up with something. Let’s meet in the morning. Right now I need something to eat.’ He ran down the tree with ease and I followed him, a little more slowly.
   ‘It’s been a great tour; thanks for agreeing to help.’
   ‘I told you, it’s for the girl, not you.’
   I went back to the van to be met by an angry Mrs Clover.
   ‘Where have you been? Don’t you think I’ve got enough to worry about without losing you? Goodness, Alfie, you’re almost as bad as Stanley.’
   As I slunk inside in disgrace, I joined Stanley and Viola, who were sulking, and I sulked right along with them.
   That evening, Mr and Mrs Clover took the children to the clubhouse as usual.
   ‘I thought we had to stay in,’ Stanley said.
   ‘Mr Green wants everyone there to watch his puppet show,’ Mr Clover explained. ‘And after what happened, it’s the very least we can do.’ Ah, Humphrey said he’d found the puppets. ‘Now come along.’
   It seemed that the puppet show was going to be our punishment, as Stanley plonked me on his lap to watch.
   The stage was set up with what Stanley explained was a puppet theatre. Mr Green was behind it and we could see two puppets covered by a curtain. I wasn’t sure if this was how it was supposed to be but I could see the strings and Mr Green’s sleeves flapping away.
   ‘Hello,’ a high-pitched voice which seemed to belong to a girl puppet said. Ah, I got it, Mr Green was doing the voices. The girl puppet moved across the stage. ‘I’m Little Red Riding Hood and I’m visiting my grandma with a basket of fruit.’
   THUD. A basket appeared through the curtain and fell on the floor.
   ‘Oops,’ Mr Green’s voice said before he remembered himself. ‘Oops,’ he said again in the girl’s voice. Mrs Green rushed on to the stage and handed the basket back through to her husband. The girl disappeared and in her place came something that looked like an ugly dog.
   ‘Hello, children.’ The voice wasn’t that dissimilar to the little girl, although a bit meaner. ‘I am the Big Bad Wolf, I am going to Grandma’s house and I’m going to eat her up.’
   I snuggled into Stanley’s lap. I was a bit scared.
   ‘Oh boy,’ Nathan said as the wolf then got tangled in the curtain and clattered to the floor. Mrs Green ran on to the stage again, picked him up and quickly gave him to Mr Green.
   Things went properly wrong when the wolf met Grandma, an old lady puppet.
   ‘Hello, I am here to eat you up,’ the wolf said as the wolf puppet collided with Grandma.
   CRASH. BANG.
   ‘Ouch,’ Mr Green’s voice said as the puppets disappeared. We all watched in horror as the wooden puppet theatre slowly tipped backwards and fell.
   ‘Ahhhhh, help,’ Mr Green cried.
   Mrs Green rushed forward, as did Mr and Mrs Clover. As they lifted the puppet theatre, we saw Mr Green tangled up in the puppets’ string. Mrs Green pulled off her tool belt and set to work, finally freeing Mr Green.
   The room was silent. No one knew whether to laugh or cry; even the children looked shocked. Mr Green shook his head and walked off and Mrs Green was left standing there.
   ‘Sorry, folks, things do go wrong sometimes, but I hope you all had a good evening, and goodnight.’
   It was a glum end to a glum day and the children weren’t allowed to play together as they were all marched off to bed.
   Chapter 6 [Ea?oeiea: i_017.jpg]
   I was growing fond of Mrs Green. That morning when I found Humphrey, she was there. She gave me some scrambled egg, which I liked; I’d accidentally tried a few of Mr Clover’s eggs before. We sat outside their caravan while I ate.
   ‘How are things today?’ he asked.
   ‘Better. But not great. Viola’s still sad.’
   ‘That’s bad.’
   ‘I know, she was so upset at being left out of the midnight feast.’
   ‘Oh, by the way.’ Humphrey scratched behind his ears. ‘I heard Mrs Green telling Mr Green that instead of throwing all the children out, they should give them a project to do. My suggestion is you keep an eye on them, and look for opportunities.’
   ‘I like your thinking. What about you?’
   ‘I need to do my campsite rounds and then take a nap. Alfie, remember Mr Green doesn’t like you being here, so try to keep a low profile.’
   ‘Thanks, Humphrey, you are being great about all this.’
   ‘Yes, but don’t forget—’
   ‘I know – it’s not for me, it’s for Viola.’
   ‘Exactly.’ But as he grinned, I knew I was cracking this cat.
   Mr Green rounded everyone up.‘We’re having a big picnic on your last day.’
   The children cheered.‘Yes, well, no need for that. Rule 244 states no unwarranted overexcitement.’
   ‘What does that mean?’ Jack asked; Emily gave him a gentle kick.
   ‘As I was saying, we have a picnic for the whole campsite which we hold over there at the edge of the woods.’ He pointed to the clearing that Humphrey and I explored yesterday.
   ‘So what can we do?’ Mrs Clover asked.
   ‘Well, my wife suggested that the children could make some decorations for the picnic. In the clubhouse we have materials to make bunting for the trees, and we have lots of baskets to decorate. What do you think?’
   ‘I think it’s an excellent idea, Mr Green, and will definitely keep them out of trouble,’ Mr Clover laughed.
   ‘Right, well, good. I’ll leave you all to go directly to the clubhouse and get creative.’ Mr Green blew his whistle.
   I felt pleased by the turn of events as I followed the children to the clubhouse. Stanley and Nathan ran in and straight up to the table where Mr Green had put the craft supplies; Jack tried to keep up with them. Poppy, Emily and Viola followed.
   ‘I know all about bunting so I should be in charge of that,’ Poppy said.
   ‘What’s bunting?’ Nathan asked.
   ‘Sort of like flags, tied together, that you hang up,’ Poppy explained. ‘Anyway, I’ll make it.’
   ‘I can help you,’ Jack said eagerly. Poppy nodded.
   ‘What shall we do?’ Stanley said. Nathan shrugged.
   ‘I know, why don’t you paint a sign sayingCurly Wood’s Picnic 2016,’ Viola suggested quietly.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_018.jpg]
   ‘Hey, not a bad idea,’ Nathan said. I felt a tingling in my fur again.
   This was what I needed. Viola was really creative, so I just needed to nudge her forward a bit. I jumped on her lap to give her confidence.
   ‘Miaow,’ I said loudly. Viola giggled.
   ‘Viola is so good at stuff like this,’ Stanley said; she blushed.
   It worked, Viola was gaining confidence as ideas flowing. She helped Poppy and Jack make different-coloured bunting and even suggested painting the American flag on some of them in honour of Nathan. Then she and Emily started decorating baskets with flowers and ribbons. They started talking more; I was beside myself with happiness as they giggled and chatted happily.
   ‘We live in Bristol. It’s nice there but I have been to London once,’ Emily said.
   ‘We’ve just moved there – I have to go to music school,’ Viola explained.
   ‘Well, you are brilliant.’
   ‘Thanks, but it’s scary starting a new school and I was sad to leave my friends. I miss them.’ Viola smiled sadly.
   ‘You can always make new friends, though,’ Emily said.
   Just then there was a commotion; we all looked over to where Nathan and Stanley were flicking paint at each other.
   ‘Yelp!’ I went over to them crossly; this was not a time for getting into trouble. Emily and Viola exchanged a look.
   ‘YOWL.’ I felt my legs slip beneath me as I skidded on some paint. BUMP! I landed on my bottom and flew headfirst into a table. Then I could only watch in horror as a pot of paint jumped from the table. SPLAT! The sticky green paint slowly rolled down my fur.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_019.jpg]
   ‘Whoops, sorry, I didn’t mean to make Alfie slip over,’ Nathan looked upset.
   ‘Oh, Alfie!’ Viola shouted, rushing over, although she didn’t touch me.
   ‘What have you done?’ Poppy shouted. ‘Now we’ll be in trouble again.’
   ‘It was an accident,’ Stanley said.
   ‘Alfie’s green!’ Jack exclaimed.
   I ran round in circles. It seemed I was in for a bath and I really hated baths.
   ‘I know – there’s a sink in the back room,’ Nathan suggested. ‘If we clean him in there, maybe no one will know?’
   ‘But it’s paint. It doesn’t just come off easily and it’s all in his fur!’ Poppy sounded more distressed than I was.
   ‘Dad has that stuff that cleans paint off his hands. It must be safe to use on fur if you can use it on skin,’ Viola said.
   ‘But is it safe for cats?’ Emily asked.
   ‘It doesn’t say so on the bottle, but then they probably don’t have to get paint off many cats,’ Stanley pointed out.
   ‘It’ll be fine, said Viola. Look, Stanley, take Alfie into the sink. Nathan, you go with him. Poppy and Jack, keep watch for Mr Green and if he appears, distract him, and Emily, we can go to the van and get the cleaner.’
   I was impressed, if not still annoyed, as Viola mobilised the troops. I realised that this girl had so much going for her– she was talented, creative and clever so why didn’t she see what I saw?
   I went to find Humphrey. Yet again, I needed help. It was as if we took a paw forward and then a paw backwards when it came to solving problems. At least I was no longer green, although the scrubbing took a bit more effort than I would have liked and I smelt funny. Humphrey was eating some fine-looking sardines outside a holidaymaker’s tent. No wonder he didn’t want me around.
   ‘Hi,’ I said sadly.
   ‘Oh boy, what now?’
   ‘It was all going so well, Viola was brilliant at making the decorations for the picnic, but then …’ I told him about the paint incident.
   ‘I wish I’d seen that,’ he chortled.
   ‘Well, anyway, back to the problem.’ I gave him a look. ‘The thing is that they cleaned me up, and they were laughing and all getting along but then Mrs Clover arrived and said she was organising the children to decorate the picnic baskets to keep them out of trouble.’
   ‘Get to the point, Alfie, I’ve got fish to finish.’
   ‘They were all excited, but then Mrs Clover told Viola that she had to practise her piano.’
   ‘Oh.’
   ‘And Viola begged her to let her do it later, but Mrs Clover said it was impossible because Mr Green had to set up for Bingo, and that she could do picnic baskets later.’
   ‘Viola’s feeling left out again?’
   ‘Yes, just as she and Emily were getting close.’
   ‘Poor kid.’
   ‘So what am I going to do?’
   ‘I’m not sure Alfie, but hey, look, we will come up with something, and in the meantime why don’t you share some of my sardines. You look like you need cheering up.’
   Maybe Humphrey was my friend after all.
   Chapter 7 [Ea?oeiea: i_020.jpg]
   ‘No we can’t do that,’ Emily was saying. What?
   I was trying to listen in to the children in the playground.
   ‘Come on, it’ll be so cool,’ Nathan said. ‘It’s boring here. We’ll go to the woods, find the place where Stanley’s dad took us and see if we can spot any bears.’
   ‘There are no bears,’ Poppy said.
   ‘Well, come with us to find out for sure,’ Nathan challenged.
   ‘But we’ll get in so much trouble,’ Emily complained.
   ‘No one will know we’ve even gone, they’re so busy getting ready for the picnic,’ Nathan argued.
   ‘I know; as an adventurer I’ve got a very good idea. I’ll go and get some peanuts and we can leave a trail so we definitely absolutely won’t get lost,’ Stanley suggested.
   ‘Well, I’m not going and, Jack, you shouldn’t either,’ Emily said.
   ‘But, but …’ Jack looked at the older boys.
   ‘YOWL,’ I shouted. I was with Emily.
   ‘Oh, Alfie, it’ll be fine.’ Stanley patted my head and ran off.
   After they left, Emily was alone. She was upset and so was I. Those children really shouldn’t have gone into the woods, and goodness knows what Mr Green would do when he found out. I had to act fast, so I went to find Viola.
   As soon as I spotted her I yowled, and howled and yelped with all my might.
   ‘Goodness, Alfie, whatever is wrong?’
   I headed for the playground; she followed me and found Emily crying.
   ‘What’s wrong, Em?’ she asked, putting her arm round her friend.
   ‘They’ve all gone to the woods – to the place where your dad took us the other day.’
   ‘What?’ Viola was concerned.
   ‘What are we going to do?’ Emily asked.
   ‘Hope they come back before anyone notices?’ Viola suggested.
   Not really what I was thinking but, hey, I could go with that.
   Emily and Viola looked worried as they wandered about the campsite. Every time they saw one of the adults they had to keep dodging questions about where the others were.
   ‘Lunchtime,’ Mrs Clover shouted finally. ‘Where’s Stanley?’
   ‘I think he’s having lunch with Nathan,’ Viola said quickly.
   After lunch they still weren’t back. Viola and Emily were worried.
   ‘What do you think can have happened to them?’ said Emily.
   ‘I hope they haven’t got lost,’ said Viola.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_021.jpg]
   I went to find Humphrey. He was sunbathing.‘We have to go to the wood,’ I said.
   ‘What? Why?’ Humphrey listened as explained. ‘But how will we know where to find them? The wood’s massive.’
   Ah, I hadn’t thought of that. But then I had a brainwave. ‘Emily – she went with Mr Clover, she might know.’
   We ran off to find the girls, who were back in the playground.‘Hurry up, we have to get going.’
   ‘We need to tell our parents,’ Viola was saying, as they stood by the swings.
   ‘They’ll be in so much trouble,’ Emily said. ‘But I don’t know what else to do.’
   I made as much noise as I could, even making Humphrey jump, and as the girls looked at me I ran off in the direction of the wood.
   ‘No, Alfie,’ Viola shouted, but I ran as fast as I could, Humphrey beside me, and the girls had no choice but to follow.
   Sometimes, I need to think out my plans more clearly. I was in the wood but had no idea which direction to go in. I then stopped and looked around; Humphrey was calmly sitting next to me. I ran round in circles, unable to get my bearings, before I tripped on a stick.
   ‘Yelp.’
   ‘Oh, Alfie.’ Viola scooped me up. Humphrey made a face and Emily looked worried. ‘What are we going to do?’
   ‘I guess, now we’re in the wood, we could find them,’ Emily said tentatively. ‘I remember the way we went. It’s not far.’
   ‘OK, we don’t really have a choice,’ Viola said, setting me down on the ground. We all set off.
   ‘I’m not sure this was your best idea,’ Humphrey said grumpily; the ground was very uncomfortable.
   ‘You didn’t have to come,’ I pointed out.
   ‘Who else will save you from trouble?’
   I muttered under my breath,‘What trouble?’
   The uneven ground crackled underneath my paws, which made me uneasy. From up above came rustling sounds and strange-sounding bird noises. It was a little scary. I soon decided the woods weren’t my favourite ever place, as shadows loomed; it went from dark to light in an instant and I felt more and more nervous. I stumbled on yet another stone and tried to regain my balance.
   ‘YELP!’ I jumped as a furry thing with a bushy tail stood in front of me. I started trembling.
   ‘It’s just a squirrel, Alfie,’ Humphrey laughed, as he walked past it.
   Before long we spotted them; they were clinging to a tree.
   ‘What are you doing?’ Viola shouted breathlessly, as we reached them.
   ‘Well, you see there was a bear,’ Jack started.
   ‘You saw a bear?’ Emily asked. I had a quick glance around. I hoped it wasn’t still here.
   ‘Not exactly but we sure heard one,’ Nathan said.
   ‘You see, we left a trail of peanuts, so we’d be able to find our way back,’ Stanley explained. ‘And we got here and carved our names on the tree trunk, did some adventuring and started to go back but the peanuts had been eaten. We heard a bear so we were all hugging this tree for safety.’
   ‘I’m hungry,’ Poppy cried.
   ‘I don’t think there’s a bear,’ Viola said sensibly. ‘In fact, I am sure you can’t get bears in these parts.’
   ‘But a bear must have eaten the peanuts,’ Jack said; he was trembling.
   ‘You’ll find that was the squirrels,’ Viola said. ‘There’s loads of them.’
   I could vouch for that.
   ‘Come on, let’s go – we’ll get you home. Emily’s so good at directions,’ Viola said.
   ‘Thanks.’ Emily was pink. ‘And hopefully no one will know you were missing.’
   But as I looked at them, covered in dirt, I was pretty sure they would.
   Sure enough, Mr and Mrs Green and all the adults were standing by the playground when we got back. I was tired; it had been a long walk. Humphrey went to stand behind Mrs Green.
   ‘Where on earth have you been?’ Mr Green shouted.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_022.jpg]
   Nathan hung his head.‘We went to the woods.’
   ‘Without an adult?’
   Nathan nodded.
   ‘You have broken rules 3, 7,10, 17, and, well, just about every rule in the book.’ He looked very cross, as Mrs Green put her hand on her husband’s arm; but even she looked angry.
   ‘It was my idea,’ Nathan admitted.
   ‘Stanley, you should have known better,’ Mrs Clover bellowed. ‘We were worried, worried sick.’
   ‘Sorry, Mum. We weren’t going to be long but we kind of got lost. Viola and Emily rescued us,’ Stanley said. Everyone looked at Viola and Emily.
   ‘That’s all well and good but you should have come to get us.’ Mr Green blew his whistle.
   ‘We were going to,’ Viola said, her voice barely above a whisper. ‘But then Alfie ran into the wood, so we had to go after him, then Emily remembered where they went with Dad.’
   ‘Ah, I see,’ Mrs Green said.
   ‘And Em wouldn’t come with us in the first place. She told us we shouldn’t go,’ Jack added.
   ‘Good girl, Emily,’ her father said.
   ‘Right, well, girls, you deserve a reward. You can have pizza in the clubhouse tonight,’ Mrs Green said.
   ‘But the rest of you – you should really all be thrown off the campsite, the amount of rules you’ve broken,’ Mr Green added.
   ‘But tomorrow is their last day,’ Mrs Green pointed out. ‘And we’ve got the picnic so they can’t get into any more trouble. Nathan, go to the caravan and stay there.’
   Mr Green looked as if he was going to argue but he didn’t.
   All the other children were grounded, so I went with Viola and Emily to the clubhouse that night. Outside, Humphrey was eating tuna; he gestured to a second bowl.
   ‘That’s for you. A reward for rescuing the kids,’ he said, and we shared a pleasant dinner together.
   Chapter 8 [Ea?oeiea: i_023.jpg]
   We woke to pouring rain and everyone worrying about the picnic.
   Stanley was busy trying to be good; Viola was reading and Mr and Mrs Clover were chatting about what they were going to do when they got home, when there was a knock on the door. Mr Green, wearing an enormous coat and hat, stood outside. He looked cheerful. I wondered if it was because it was our last day.
   ‘I won’t come in, I’ll drip all over your van, but Mrs Green and I had a chat and we thought that we’d move the picnic into the clubhouse. The children can go over and get decorating.’
   Both Stanley and Viola perked up at that. As they put on raincoats and left the van, I braved the weather and went with them. I shook myself off as I went inside. The others were already there, but they didn’t seem very happy.
   ‘Hi,’ Stanley said cheerfully. The others grumbled their response.
   ‘Shall we start decorating now?’ Viola suggested.
   ‘Not with him,’ Poppy said, pointing at Nathan.
   ‘Why?’ Viola asked.
   ‘All week he’s been trying to get us into trouble. My parents took away my pocket money,’ Poppy explained.
   ‘And mine were very cross,’ Jack added.
   ‘It’s true you really have got us all in trouble,’ Stanley pointed out. Nathan looked at everyone, then stomped off.
   ‘Miaow.’ I ran after him; he went to the backstage room, sat on one of the boxes and crossed his arms. I felt sorry for him, although he did keep getting them into trouble, but it was because he was unhappy. I jumped up on to a box next to him. He stroked me sadly.
   ‘No one likes me any more,’ he said to me. I purred and nestled into him.
   After a while, Viola appeared.
   ‘Nathan, are you all right?’ Viola asked.
   ‘Everyone hates me,’ he said.
   ‘No, they don’t, they’re just upset. You have to admit that saying it would be OK to go to the woods was a bit dumb.’
   ‘Yeah, real dumb. The thing is, I’ve been so homesick that I thought that if I caused a bit of trouble my uncle and aunt might send me back.’
   I rubbed his arm.
   ‘I didn’t know … You are a long way from home.’
   ‘Yeah, I’ve never been away from my parents for this long. I mean, it’s nice of them to have me to stay and it was exciting going on a plane on my own and England is nice, but I miss my parents and my friends back home.’
   ‘I understand. We moved house a little while before we came here, and I had to say goodbye to all my friends.’
   I also understood. I was missing my home, Edgar Road, although I was so busy I didn’t have much time to be homesick.
   ‘So you know how it feels?’
   ‘Yes and so would the others if you explained it to them.’
   ‘I will; thanks, Viola. You know I’ve had a great time this week with you all. That’s why I don’t want them to be mad at me.’
   ‘It’s been nice to meet you,’ Viola said, smiling.
   ‘You too. You’re cool for a girl, Viola. I mean you play the piano so well and you won Swingball, then how you made the decorations… You basically organised the whole thing, not to mention rescuing us.’
   ‘I did?’ Viola sounded surprised.
   ‘Hey, maybe you don’t realise how cool you are.’ Nathan jumped down from the box and went to talk to the others.
   Viola was smiling; how brilliant was it that Nathan had said exactly what I was thinking?
   Viola was more confident as she helped everyone decorate the hall. Nathan had said sorry and everyone was friends again. I noticed that Emily and Viola seemed to be really close. My heart swelled with joy. And when we left the clubhouse to go back to the van, the rain had almost stopped.
   I saw Humphrey.
   ‘Hello,’ I said.
   ‘So, you’re leaving tomorrow?’
   ‘Yes. I’ve had a nice time but I’m looking forward to going back.’
   ‘Everything OK with the girl?’
   ‘Yes, that’s the best bit. She seems so much happier now. The rescue pushed her and Emily together, so thanks for your help.’
   ‘I would say it was a pleasure but having to go into the woods, hide the puppets and everything else, was a lot of work. I won’t be sorry to see you go.’
   Did he really say that? I saw Viola approach out of the corner of my eye and I turned to Humphrey.
   ‘Do you have to be so mean?’ I asked. I then hissed at him to show how angry I was.
   ‘Whoa, calm down,’ he replied.
   ‘No, Humphrey, I’ve been nothing but nice to you. I didn’t try to take the attention off you with the humans; I didn’t steal your food; I was respectful of the fact that I was on your territory and yet still you can say mean things?’ I hissed again.
   ‘Alfie, are you fighting?’ Viola asked, looking worried. I turned to her, then scowled at Humphrey. Humphrey stared at me; I held his gaze. I wasn’t a pushover after all. As we stared at each other for what seemed like ages, I wondered if he would in fact pounce on me. I felt my fur tremblingas I tried to hold my nerve but then, Humphrey stretched his tail in a friendly gesture.
   ‘Meow,’ he said. He was calling a truce. I blinked slowly at him as he whispered an apology, which I accepted. I wasn’t a cat to hold grudges. And I also felt relieved – he was bigger than me after all.
   ‘Viola,’ Mrs Clover said.
   ‘Yes, Mum?’
   ‘It’s time for your piano practice.’
   Mr Clover and Stanley stood beside her.
   ‘But we’re getting ready for the picnic; I’m meeting Emily.’
   [Ea?oeiea: i_024.jpg]
   ‘Well, you can do that later. Piano first.’ Viola was about to go but then she looked at me.
   I rubbed her legs.
   ‘No, Mum, no. I have missed playing with the others all week because of piano and I haven’t complained but now I have one day left so the piano can wait.’
   I purred with pride.
   ‘But Viola—’
   ‘You know how worried I’ve been about making friends at my new school.’ Viola was quietly spoken but very firm; we weren’t used to her sounding quite so assertive.
   Mrs Clover looked at Mr Clover, who shrugged.
   ‘Miaow,’ I said in agreement.
   ‘I’m sorry, I got it wrong, Viola, but I thought you loved the piano.’
   ‘I do, Mum, and I’m happy to practise but I am old enough to decidewhenand you never let me.’
   Mrs Clover grabbed Viola in a hug.‘I’m sorry, it seems I have underestimated you; you should be with your friends today.’
   ‘Right, good, then I’m going to find Emily.’
   Mr and Mrs Clover and Stanley all looked as Viola walked off and I am pretty sure they were impressed.
   Everyone from the campsite sat on blankets in the clubhouse enjoying the picnic. The children were complimented on what a great job they’d done with the decorations and even Mr Green smiled. Humphrey and I were allowed into the clubhouse and given lots of treats.
   [Ea?oeiea: i_025.jpg]
   ‘You are lucky being a campsite cat,’ I said to him.
   ‘Thanks, Alfie, and I’m sorry I haven’t been as nice as I could be. I’ll even miss you a bit when you go.’
   We were friends, Viola had made friends and had found her confidence, so all in all it had been a very successful holiday.
   As we set off the following day, everyone was sad to be leaving. Emily and Viola said they would keep in touch and Nathan even promised to write from America. Nathan had spoken to his parents the previous evening and he said it had made him feel much better, thanks to his new friends. Stanley even let Poppy almost hug him and Jack cried. Even Mr Green had tears in his eyes but they may have been tears of joy.
   We all settled down in the van for the long drive home.
   ‘Can we come back here next year?’ Viola asked.
   ‘I don’t see why not,’ Mrs Clover said.
   ‘And Alfie too?’ Stanley asked.
   ‘If his family agree,’ Mr Clover said.
   Viola and Stanley cheered and I curled up to have a catnap; I was happy to come back but at the same time I was glad I had a year to recover from this holiday.
   3. ALFIE AND GEORGE
   Chapter One
   ‘What on earth is THAT?’ I looked at Snowball, my cat girlfriend, then at the creature. We were standing by the wooden fence that surrounded the garden of our holiday home, staring at the strange creature roaming around on the other side. It was quite plump, had a very sharp beak, spiky fur, which looked feathery, and small, mean eyes. It made a funny, high-pitched noise as it eyeballed us, pecking in our direction. I backed away nervously.
   ‘Oh, Alfie, it’s just a hen! You must have seen one before?’ Snowball laughed.
   I took offence, though in actual fact I hadn’t seen a real-life chicken before. But I was supposed to be the man in the relationship so I tried to square up.
   ‘Hiss,’ I said. There, that’d show him who was boss. But then the hen rushed towards me, wobbling its tiny head and flapping its wings. I jumped back.
   Snowball laughed again and tickled me with her tail.‘It’s harmless, Alfie, honestly.’ I certainly wasn’t convinced. ‘Well, you don’t get many hens in London,’ I huffed, stalking away.
   We were somewhere called‘the country’, and very nice it was too. We were staying in a house in the middle of nowhere, with nothing around for miles except fields. My family — Jonathan, Claire and Summer — and Snowball’s family, the Snells — Karen, Tim, Daisy and Christopher — had rented a house for a week, and they had brought both me and Snowball with them. Cats don’t normally go on holiday so we felt very lucky. When I told my friends, the neighbourhood cats, they were shocked, but we were having a lovely time so far and I thought that perhaps us cats should holiday more often. A change is as good as a rest, my first owner, Margaret, used to say, and she was right — it was just what the vet ordered.
   The house itself was large, with five bedrooms, and there was a lovely open fire in the living room, which Snowball and I curled up in front of in the evenings. It was very romantic— although we had to be careful as sparks jumped out every now and then, once nearly singeing Snowball’s beautiful white tail.
   We had been told that, if we went out, we mustn’t leave the garden. Our humans were worried about us getting lost — as if that would happen — but so far we had obediently stuck to exploring said garden and doing as we were told. It was a good size; pretty, with lots of interesting bushes and flowerbeds. There was enough to keep us occupied, as it was much bigger than the small back garden I had to put up with in London. However, beyond the garden, where the chickens lived, was the lure of some very lush fields. It was a big temptation for an inquisitive cat like me.
   Snowball was less impressed. She’d been a rich cat before she moved to Edgar Road (my street in London), and her family had had an enormous garden in their old house in the country. She didn’t boast about it anymore, but when we first met (a time when she had done her best to be rude to me) she did a bit. But anyway, I had won her over and captured her heart and we’d been together for two years now. The best two years of my cat life.
   People always seemed surprised by our relationship at first, but then cats can fall in love just as easily as humans, if not more so. I should know, as I’ve had an awful lot of experience of humans.
   Being a doorstep cat, I have a wide variety of humans I call family. I visit more than one home and have many‘owners’. As well and Claire and Jonathan, I regularly spend time with Polly and Matt and their two children, Henry and Martha, and my Polish family, Franceska, big Tomasz and their children, Aleksy and little Tomasz. I am one busy cat.
   I’ve managed to bring my families together so they are all the closest of friends. In my time with them, on Edgar Road and beyond, I’ve seen so much change. Humans seem to change a lot, or at least their lives do, and us cats are often the bystanders that have to sort out the inevitable debris. I take care of my humans, it’s what I do, and I’ve seen the ups and downs, the good and bad, and even the downright ugly, but I have always taken my role of looking after my families very seriously.
   ‘We ought to go in, I’m getting hungry,’ I said to Snowball, licking my lips. I could have almost eaten the hen, had it not been so formidable. But then I’m not much of a hunter, and neither is Snowball; she’s far too beautiful to kill anything. I still remember how mesmerised I felt whenI first laid eyes on her. Even now, after two years, I am one smitten kitten — or smitten cat, more accurately.
   ‘Race you back,’ she said, giving herself a head start. I bounded after her and we arrived at the open back door at the same time, both slightly breathless from the run.
   ‘Ah, there you two are,’ said Claire, smiling at me as we padded into the kitchen. Summer, who was two and a half years old, was balanced on her hip. Claire put a bowl down on the highchair and wrestled Summer expertly into the seat as she wriggled in protest. Summer, my human sister, was what Claire called a ‘madam’ and what Jonathan called ‘spirited’. Although she could sometimes be a pain, and tried to pull my tail a bit too often for my liking, I loved her very much. And she compensated with some lovely cuddles.
   Summer smiled, picked up her spoon and threw it on the floor. She never tired of this game, although in my opinion she was old enough to know better.
   ‘Toast,’ she said, in her lispy voice.
   ‘Eat your porridge, then you can have toast,’ Claire replied sternly.
   ‘NO!’ Summer screamed, throwing her bowl of porridge on the floor. As usual, I had been standing too close to her highchair, and I carefully licked some of the stray porridge from my fur. When would I ever learn?
   Summer was my charge, I felt. I had to look after her, even when she was being a madam. It amused Jonathan, our dad, who said he liked a woman with a strong will. I did too, which is why I liked Snowball and my best cat friend, Tiger. However, Claire found it a bit annoying, I think, although since having Summer she was so happy that I didn’t worry about her too much anymore. Not like I did before anyway.
   When I first came to live with Claire she had just got divorced, and she was quite broken. It took a lot of time and effort to put her back together. But then eventually she met Jonathan, one of my other humans, and now they are happily married with their child, Summer, completing our family.
   ‘Alfie, Snowball, breakfast,’ sang Daisy, Snowball’s teenage owner, putting bowls of tuna down for us.
   ‘Miaow,’ I thanked her. Daisy was beautiful — tall and lovely. She and Snowball actually looked alike in that they both had almost white fur — or hair, in Daisy’s case. Since Daisy had turned eighteen she’d been working as a model. She was becoming fairly successful already, and that was why she’d come on holiday. She might be too busy to come away with her family in the future, if all went to plan, so she needed to take the chance while she could. Snowball missed her when she was working but was very proud of her, which was touching.
   Christopher, Daisy’s sixteen-year-old brother, sat at the table eyeing Summer suspiciously, making sure he was far enough away from her to avoid being hit by any food. He was much more sensible than me.
   As I enjoyed my breakfast, I basked in happiness. Although my other families weren’t sharing my holiday, it was almost perfect. I had all the other people I loved around me and of course my beloved Snowball. As the humans ate their breakfasts, happily chatting and making plans for the day, I couldn’t help but feel my heart swell. Life didn’t get much better than this.
   After breakfast, the sun slowly emerged, heating the morning into a warm spring day. Summer was playing with some teddy bears on a picnic blanket in the garden, whilst Claire and Karen sat beside her, drinking tea and chatting. Daisy had gone for a run and the men and Christopher had gone to the local town to do some grocery shopping— although Claire said they’d really gone to find a pub. Meanwhile, Snowball and I were relaxing, sprawled out on a warm patch of grass.
   ‘This is the life.’ I stretched my paws out and rolled onto my back, letting the sun warm my fur.
   ‘It really is,’ Snowball replied.‘Shall we go and see if we can find some butterflies to chase?’
   I didn’t need asking twice.
   This place was certainly different than London. Not only were there more animals around, but there was a sort of peacefulness that I hadn’t really experienced before. And the wonderful thing was that it was rubbing off on all of us. All the humans seemed relaxed, which was nice because that didn’t happen often in London; they were usually too preoccupied with work and other stresses. We had all been through some trying times in the last few years; my humans had faced many challenges. Adjusting to life in a new country, trying to have babies, postnatal depression, bullying at school, secrets, heartache — you name it, we’d been through it. I’ve been with them through each experience and have helped to resolve many problems, if I do say so myself. I think the problems brought my families closer together, and it was nice to see that we had finally entered a harmonious phase. Long may it last.
   Snowball and I found a flowerbed, which looked as good a place as any to find butterflies.
   We sat silently, side by side. We were so happy together that we often didn’t need words. I actually felt as if I knew what Snowball was thinking, and vice versa. In the event, there were no butterflies, but we both dived into the flowerbed when a noisy bee appeared. We tried to lay low as the bee took what it needed from its chosen flower. I knew bees were good — I’d heard enough people saying that — but if you got too close, a sting could be pretty nasty. After the bee buzzed off we rolled around, enjoying the sun and the soft scents of the flowers. It was a pretty romantic time.
   ‘Alfie, being on holiday with you is the best thing I’ve ever done,’ Snowball purred, putting her paw on mine. I felt quite emotional as I looked at my love.
   ‘It’s the best thing I’ve ever done, too,’ I replied — and I meant it with all my heart.
   Chapter Two
   [Ea?oeiea: i_002.jpg]
   Summer was playing ball with Christopher. Although he treated her with suspicion when she had food, he could be quite good with her at other times.
   ‘Throw the ball, Sum,’ Chris said. Summer clutched it to her chest and shook her head. She then put it on the ground and sat on it. Christopher laughed. I went over to her and nudged the ball with my paw. Summer giggled and wobbled, rolling off it. She laughed as I lay next to her on the grass,tickling her with my tail. Out of the corner of my eye, I could see Jonathan approaching us.
   ‘Honestly, neither of you will play for Chelsea at this rate,’ he said, laughing. He scooped Summer up and swung her around.
   ‘Jon, she’s just had breakfast, she’ll be sick,’ Claire said, joining them. I stood up and stretched, brushing some grass off my fur with my tongue.
   ‘Sorry.’ Jonathan rolled his eyes. I gave him a conspiratorial look; Claire did fuss sometimes.
   ‘Ready?’ she asked.
   Jonathan nodded.‘Right. Alfie, Snowball, we’re off for a day trip, so you guys need to stay here and keep out of trouble.’ He looked at me when he said the last bit.
   ‘Miaow,’ I said, indignantly.
   ‘Do you think it’ll be OK to leave the back door open?’ Tim asked as he went to put some bags into one of the cars.
   ‘Don’t see why not, it’s pretty deserted here,’ Jonathan said.
   ‘Gosh, I love that we can do that. We’d never be able to on Edgar Road would we?’ said Karen. She and Tim exchanged a look; I wondered if they were thinking about their old homes, as Snowball sometimes did. I would catch her with a faraway look in her eyes, and as much as I knew she was happy, she did miss it. I understood — I still missed my first home at times and, although I loved my home and all my families now, I would never forget it. It wasn’t bad to miss things, I realised. Although it meant you had lost something or someone, it also meant you loved them in the first place. It was hard, but that was how life worked.
   We sat by the stone steps that led up to the back door as we watched our families go out for the day. I was quite excited, as it meant a day for us to have our own adventures without worrying about the humans for once.
   ‘Do you think we should go and explore a bit?’ Snowball asked.
   ‘Well, the humans said we shouldn’t in case we get lost,’ I replied. I was sometimes a foolhardy cat, but the last thing I wanted to do was get lost in the country. I might never be able to find my way back home!
   ‘Oh, come on, let’s live a bit. And anyway, I’ve got a good sense of direction.’ Snowball nuzzled me, which meant she knew I was going to give in. However, I couldn’t forget the time that she had got horribly lost, and I had had to launch a rescue mission as a result. I didn’t dare mention it though — I wasn’t looking for an argument or for Snowball to sulk, which she was rather good at when she was cross.
   ‘OK then, let’s go.’ After all, I told myself, what could go wrong?
   We headed out of the garden for the first time and into the neighbouring field. The long grass pleasantly tickled my legs as we ran through it side by side. There were insects buzzing around us, and as we travelled further from the house, we found some more chickens. These ones were actually quite friendly, clucking and scratching at the ground as we crept near them. I got quite close to one actually, trying to demonstrate my bravery, although inside I was like cat-food-in-jelly.
   We went through another field and jumped onto a fence.
   ‘Are your legs OK?’ Snowball asked gently as she saw me grimace. I had an old injury that sometimes affected my back legs, but they weren’t too bad, despite the odd twinge.
   ‘Yes,’ I said. ‘I’m fine, thanks.’ I jumped down from the fence smoothly to show her that I was all right. Then, feeling my confidence growing, I ran into the field. I was having a lovely time, the wind in my fur, the sun gently smiling down at us. I could get used to living in the country, I thought. Little did I know I was about to get a rude awakening.
   ‘Moo,’ a voice said angrily.
   ‘Yelp!’ I screamed, stopping suddenly. I found myself level with a leg, and as I looked up I started shaking. I was facing a monster, and he didn’t look happy to see me. He stared down at me with big, dark eyes, snorting loudly.‘Yelp,’ I screamed again.
   ‘Snort,’ the monster said, sounding angry. I realised that he was unhappy about us being in his field. He started to stomp and, as I saw the grass being flattened, I started to imagine being squashed beneath those big hooves. He shook his head, violently, as he eyeballed me again. Surely he wasabout to pounce. I managed to spring back, bouncing off Snowball and back in front of the cow again.
   He lifted his head, snorted loudly again and swished his long tail from side to side.
   ‘It’s OK, Alfie.’ Snowball was beside me. At the sight of her the monster seemed a bit less aggressive. She gently led me a safe distance away.‘It’s just a cow,’ she continued.‘They’re big, and seem aggressive, I know, but they’re really quite gentle.’
   I had never seen a cow this close up before and it seemed anything but gentle to me.
   ‘But it’s … it’s … enormous,’ I stammered, unable to take my eyes off the black-and-white patchy creature. I could feel my back legs trembling with fear, although the cow had turned away, flicking its tail and eating grass as if we didn’t exist. I was flooded with relief.
   ‘They’re harmless,’ she explained. It seemed I had a lot to learn about these farm animals.
   I gladly followed her away from the monster cow. It certainly didn’t look what I would call ‘harmless’.
   The rest of our trip passed without incident, although I felt as if I was more skittish than I had been when we set off. But it was also one of the best days ever. We romped through fields, found some lovely trees to admire and were not attacked by any other farm animals, although we saw some sheep and I thought that one of them seemed to take a fancy to Snowball. But they were the same colour and maybe she thought Snowball was a lamb. After all, as Snowball explained, sheep weren’t known for their brains. Not like cats.
   Later that evening I was having a catnap, curled up in front of the fire. I needed a rest after our expedition. Although I was generally an active cat I was totally worn out. Maybe it was the country air, whatever that was. Claire kept referring to it, so it must have some effect. Jonathan said it was ridiculous to have an open fire when it was so warm but Karen and Claire wanted it lit, as we didn’t have fires like this at home. I wasn’t complaining; I loved being toasty warm. Snowball was with Daisy, in her room, I think, and I must have nodded off as I started to slowly awaken to the sound of soft voices.
   ‘Are you sure?’ I heard Karen say. I opened one eye to see her and Claire sitting on the sofa.
   ‘Pretty much. I’m afraid it’s definitely the case.’ Afraid? What was this? As far as I knew all was well with my families.
   ‘Oh, honey, I am sorry, I don’t know what to say.’ Karen’s voice was rich with sympathy.
   ‘Well we have Summer and she’s perfect, even if she is a little diva, but you know I would have loved another child, and Jon would too, but it hasn’t happened. Our doctor has run tests, but it looks as if we’ve been blessed with the only child we’re going to have.’ Although Claire sounded a little bit sad, she wasn’t crying. I hoped that this wasn’t the start of something. I worried about all my humans, but Claire especially. After the dark times she had faced in the past I knew she was prone to sliding into depression.
   ‘But you had no problems with Summer,’ said Karen.
   ‘No, it’s just one of those things — nature. It’s funny, but with Summer I was so desperate to have a baby that I really got into a state before I conceived her, but now we’ve been trying for over a year and a half and I’m still quite calm. I guess I feel lucky having such a gorgeous little girl, and of course Jonathan, that I have to count my blessings rather than dwell on what I can’t have.’
   ‘Have you thought about IVF?’
   ‘I did do some research but I’m not the most balanced person and with the hormones and injections and stuff, I worry that I’ll become unhinged. Not to mention that it might not work, and would cost a fortune. No, I need to be a good mother to Summer, and with working part time now, I need to be on top of things. To be honest, I’d love to adopt a child, but Jon’s reluctant.’
   ‘Adoption?’
   ‘Yes, my dad’s a social worker and I kind of always grew up thinking that giving a child a home would be a great thing to do. I hadn’t thought about it in years but when we found out we couldn’t conceive naturally, my mind immediately turned to adoption. But unfortunately Jon just doesn’tsee it the same way.’
   I stayed perfectly still as I listened. Of course I knew they wanted another baby, and there had been quite a few hushed conversations behind closed doors, but because everything had been so good for us all, perhaps I had turned a blind eye to the struggles they were having. Or maybe I had been more caught up with Snowball than I realised…
   ‘Ah, the whole man thing, wanting their genes to run through the veins of a child.’
   ‘Probably, but he’ll come round, I know he will. We have so much to offer a child, I just need to persuade him that it’s a really good idea,’ said Claire.
   ‘You know how it is with men, you need him to think it’s his idea.’ They both laughed.
   ‘Glass of wine?’ Claire suggested.
   ‘Why not? We are on holiday after all.’
   As Karen and Claire drank their wine I marvelled at how far Claire had come. When I first met her she had been a mess— divorced, heartbroken, drinking too much and miserable. But now she was so happy and not even this setback, something that would previously have threatened to derail her, could defeat her. She wasn’t a victim anymore, and I was so overjoyed that I jumped up onto her lap and touched my nose toher hand. I wanted her to know how proud I was of her.
   ‘Oh, Alfie, I love you.’ She kissed the top of my head. I snuggled into her, thinking that this holiday lark wasn’t bad at all. Despite the monster cow.
   Chapter Three
   [Ea?oeiea: i_003.jpg]
   This holiday was making me love Snowball even more. Before we left Edgar Road, both cars full of cases and me in my cat carrier in one car, Snowball in the other, I wouldn’t have thought it possible to love her more. Yet I did. Spending this time away together, away from the day-to-day stresses of Edgar Road, had brought us even closer.
   If cats could get married like humans, I would have married Snowball in a heartbeat. I knew it wasn’t possible, but when I told her as we lay by the fire she said it was the most romantic thing she had ever heard. Which gave me an idea. As a very organised cat, I do like to make plans, and I thought that in order for us to always remember this holiday, the first one we’d had together — andalso the best holiday any cat could ask for — I would plan something for us.
   The humans were going to the beach for the day. They had packed up lots of food, fussed a lot, and made it seem as if they were going for days rather than a few hours. Finally though they left the house, and Snowball and I were alone. I wanted to have a lovely day with her, and that meant being brave, bold and taking a risk. This cat was ready to do just that. I wanted to put a smile on Snowball’s face and for us have a day we would both remember. Of course, I wasn’t sure where the day would take us. When we went out the other day, we hadn’t ventured too far. We still didn’t know the area but I figured if we headed towards the big farm there would be lots of fun to be had. I outlined my plan to Snowball. We would leave the garden — hopefully avoiding the giant cows — and explore the luscious green fields that led to the big hill. Once at the top of the hill we would admire the views that our families had been talking about. I thought if we just headed off in one direction we would be fine, there would be no way we’d get lost. In fact, I was quite excited and feeling adventurous.
   ‘I love it, Alfie. Although I thought you were still worried about the cows and getting lost?’
   ‘Not me,’ I replied, with more bravado than I felt. I just hoped those cows would keep away.
   When our families had finally piled themselves into their cars and driven off, Snowball and I finished our ablutions and got ready for our own adventure. My legs were almost trembling with excitement; I just knew we were going to have the best day ever.
   We headed towards the farm, greeting the hens as if we were old friends. They wobbled their heads and clucked but weren’t very interested in us. I don’t know why I was ever scared of them: they were quite sweet really. We watched them for a bit before heading off. Before too long we came across a field with incredibly long, green grass. It was even taller than us. We made our way into it, and at one point I couldn’t see Snowball at all.
   ‘Yowl!’ She jumped out at me and I almost fell over.
   ‘Yeah, nice one, this is meant to be romantic — not scary,’ I pointed out, smoothing my fur.
   ‘Sorry, Alfie, I couldn’t resist. This grass is the longest I’ve ever seen. It’s so much fun! Come on, let’s go.’ She started running and I joined her. We ran through the grass, letting it tickle our fur, until we emerged on the other side of the field. I felt invigorated as we looked around, deciding where to head next.
   ‘Let’s avoid that way. Remember those sheep? I really think that one wanted to kidnap me,’ Snowball said, looking a bit worried.
   ‘As if I would ever let them do that,’ I replied, with a raise of my whiskers.
   ‘Alfie, would you ever want to live in the country?’ Snowball asked as we trekked through another field.
   ‘I don’t know. I mean … it’s very nice. But it’s quiet. And all these animals … I’m not sure it’s for me, to be honest. I’m a Londoner through and through.’
   ‘When we lived in our old house, it was a bit like the country, but not as much as this — it was far more built up. I think it was a nice compromise.’
   ‘I know you miss your old home, Snowball,’ I said, trying to be understanding and not feel hurt. You see, I didn’t like to think of Snowball before me. It sounds silly but I felt jealous that she had a life that didn’t have me in it.
   ‘I do a bit, but I would never want to go back, not without you, Alfie.’ I felt my heart melt as I looked into her beautiful eyes.
   A big black cloud loomed, interrupting our moment.
   ‘Oh no,’ I said, as I felt a drop of rain land on my nose. It seemed to have come from nowhere. Just a minute ago we had been enjoying the sun on our fur.
   ‘We might have to make a run for it,’ Snowball shouted, as rain started to patter all around us; neither of us liked getting wet. As Snowball bounded off I followed her, not thinking about where she was going. After a bit of a run we came across a building and hurried inside. There was straw onthe floor; it was a bit scratchy, but at least we were dry.
   ‘Thank goodness, Alfie,’ Snowball said. ‘It’s a proper rain shower out there.’
   ‘But what is this place?’ I asked.
   ‘Some kind of barn.’
   ‘Oink.’ We both looked up to see a group of fat, pink pigs moving towards us. They shuffled and snorted and didn’t look very friendly. Five of them descended, all pink skin and rounded bellies. Although they didn’t move quickly, as they banded together I could see we were in trouble.
   ‘Oh dear,’ I said, as Snowball and I backed away, until we were huddled in the corner of the barn.
   ‘Pigs seem very mean,’ Snowball said, not reassuringly at all. ‘I’ve never been this close to any but I’ve heard all sorts about them. Apparently they eat anything and everything.’
   ‘Which could include us …’ We were literally backed into a corner. They were coming closer, heads shaking a little, feet stomping beneath their immense weight. They looked at us with hungry eyes. Snowball cowered behind me. We were going to be pigswill at this rate. I had to get us out of this mess. After all, I was the tom here. I took some deep breaths, trying to calm myself down even though the animals were almost upon us.
   ‘OK, they aren’t as big as cows. How about we run through their legs?’ I suggested. Although I was terrified, I couldn’t see another way out.
   ‘We could try, but look at those feet, the weight they carry. I wouldn’t want to get trampled under them.’ Snowball shivered. We were both cold and scared. This romantic day wasn’t turning out quite how I had expected.
   ‘I know,’ I said, ‘but look, we have no option — they look like they want to eat us!’ I tried to be the man of the relationship — the pigs were only inches away from us. I had to act, so I sort of pushed Snowball a bit and then darted between the legs of the nearest pig, looking behind to check she was following.‘Come on, Snowy, it’ll be fine,’ I encouraged, as one of the pigs gave an angry snort.
   Snowball didn’t hang around; she ran for it and joined me. The pigs looked a bit confused but luckily their bulk slowed them down as they tried to come after us. We were far quicker and after a couple more pig-dodges we emerged triumphant, relieved, and thankful to be safe. The rain had eased off and was now more of a drizzle.
   ‘Shall we risk going back home in this?’ I asked.
   ‘Best do, I don’t fancy my chances with those pigs.’
   ‘You’ve been so calm around the farm animals so far,’ I pointed out. Snowball looked even more terrified than I felt.
   ‘I know, but pigs … As I said, I don’t have much experience of them, but I’ve heard things.’ Her eyes shone with fear.
   ‘They did look as if they’d be happy to eat us both.’ I looked around so we could start our journey home and my heart sank yet again.‘Snowball?’
   ‘Yes, Alfie?’ She was trying to clean some straw from her fur.
   ‘Which way is home?’ I asked. She stopped what she was doing and looked at me. I stared glumly back at her. I had no idea where we were.
   ‘Oh no, we were in such a rush to get out of the rain, I didn’t even notice which direction we were going,’ she cried.
   Could this day get any worse? I looked around again but all I could see were fields. Fields in all directions— and they all looked the same. We were well and truly lost.
   As we discussed what to do next, I led us to a nearby hedge so at least we could shelter from the rain while we argued.
   ‘I think we just head off and hope for the best,’ I said.
   ‘Great, Alfie, you always have a smart plan and now you’re saying that we just head off with no idea where we’re going,’ Snowball snapped. I knew she was cross but I felt that was unfair. It wasn’t just my fault we were lost after all. I was nestling further into the hedge when something — or rather someone — stopped me, and I found myself nose to nose with a rather large, shabby tabby.
   ‘Hiss,’ he said.
   ‘Hello.’ I kept it friendly. He was much bigger than me after all. That said, I liked to pride myself on staying trim and taking care of my appearance, and the same certainly couldn’t be said for this cat.
   ‘Who are you?’ he asked.
   ‘I’m Alfie and this is Snowball. We’re on holiday with our families.’
   ‘Don’t be ridiculous, cats don’t go on holiday.’ He grimaced, showing quite sharp teeth, and for a moment I wasn’t sure if he was going to attack. I tried to keep calm, my ears moving sideways with nerves and my tail swaying. I wasn’t an aggressive cat but I did have my girlfriend to protect.
   ‘I know it’s quite strange, but honestly we are,’ Snowball replied, stepping forwards. The tabby took one look at her blue eyes and white fur and immediately preened himself, sitting up straighter and waving his tail in a friendly gesture. A bit too friendly, if you ask me.
   ‘How are you doing?’ he asked, grinning. ‘Let me introduce myself. I’m Roddy and I’m a local resident. I’m sorry if you think me rude but, well, I’m not used to visiting cats.’ He blinked at Snowball, which is our equivalent of blowing kisses. Just who did this Roddy think he was?
   ‘We live in London,’ I replied haughtily. Anyone who thinks that cats don’t flirt should have seen him as he stretched out his paws and wrapped his tail neatly round his body. I decided he was too big and scruffy to be considered good-looking, which was a relief. I, with my blue-grey fur and svelte figure, was often complimented on my handsomeness. In any case, I was pretty secure in my looks and I knew Snowball was loyal, so I tried to relax a bit.
   ‘London, you say? Well I don’t know anything about that.’ He was looking directly at Snowball.
   ‘The thing is,’ Snowball said, a little bit too flirtatiously, ‘we’re a little lost. We tried to shelter from the rain and ended up trapped in a barn with some rather unfriendly pigs and now we don’t know how to get back to the holiday house.’ She tilted her head, and I saw that alreadyRoddy was smitten.
   ‘Where are you staying?’ he asked, puffing his chest out. ‘I’m a bit of an expert on these parts.’
   ‘A big house,’ I replied, not exactly enjoying this exchange, though I acknowledged he was probably our best hope.
   ‘That narrows it down,’ he said sarcastically.
   ‘Well Roddy,’ purred Snowball, stretching out her paws, ‘it’s near the farm, we have hens on the edge of the garden and there’s a field of cows directly in front of us.’
   ‘Ah, I know where you mean. Right, city cats, follow me and I’ll have you home in no time.’
   Despite us getting a bit wet and being a little bit stressed from our adventure, Roddy got us home safely, and although I was still a bit annoyed at his flirting with my girlfriend, I thanked him graciously. I was relieved. As we left him at the door, he was still marvelling at how odd it was for cats to go on holiday.
   The fire wasn’t lit as the house was empty, but it was warm as we lay down in front of it to dry off. I decided that, as our romantic trip had been my idea, I would be magnanimous.
   ‘I’m sorry that our day went a bit wrong,’ I said, nuzzling into Snowball’s neck.
   ‘And I’m sorry I snapped. I was just scared. But you took care of me, like always,’ she said, returning the nuzzle.
   ‘Well, it was Roddy who saved us,’ I pointed out.
   ‘Maybe, but you’re my hero, not him,’ she said, and I couldn’t have felt happier.
   The door opened and our families, dripping wet, walked into the living room.
   ‘Let’s light the fire and get ourselves out of these wet clothes before we catch pneumonia,’ Karen said.
   ‘Look at those two, just relaxing by the warm hearth while we nearly drowned on the beach,’ Jonathan said, getting the kindling into the grate. With our eyes half closed, Snowball and I grinned at each other. How little they knew.
   Chapter Four
   [Ea?oeiea: i_004.jpg]
   ‘Hope it hasn’t been too boring for you two,’ Jonathan said, as everyone breakfasted together on our last full day of the holiday.
   ‘Nah,’ Christopher replied.‘It’s been good.’ He looked a bit sheepish, but then he was a teenage boy and apparently they are all somewhat monosyllabic.
   ‘I’ve enjoyed doing nothing,’ Daisy answered.‘If it all goes to plan I’ll be busy with work when we get back.’
   ‘According to Polly, you’re going to be the next Kate Moss,’ Claire said.
   ‘If I could be just a fraction as successful as she is, I’ll be overjoyed,’ Daisy laughed. She didn’t realise how stunning she really was, I thought — a bit like Snowball. Although Snowball had been aloof when I first met her, it wasn’t because she thought she was a beauty, and even nowshe was still unaware of the effect she had on other cats and people. Like Roddy, most male cats started drooling like dogs when they first saw her. Myself included, I have to admit.
   ‘So what shall we do today?’ Karen asked as she buttered another piece of toast.
   ‘How about we hang out here, maybe go for a walk, and then have lunch at home?’ Tim suggested.
   ‘Sounds nice,’ Claire said, trying and failing to spoon cereal into Summer’s closed mouth.
   ‘TOAST,’ Summer shouted. Claire looked exasperated but Jonathan laughed indulgently.
   ‘I wish she could learn to say fruit or porridge at least,’ Claire said.
   ‘My girl knows her own mind,’ Jonathan replied.‘Chip off the old block.’ Claire swiped at him with her arm.
   ‘God, then I’m in trouble,’ she joked.
   ‘I’m going to do some computer stuff,’ Christopher said, looking bashful. He was turning out to be quite a chip off his old block himself, if that means what I think it does. He was following in his father’s footsteps by being a computer genius, or something along those lines.
   ‘Hey, Claire, I know you’ve got that book you keep trying to read, so I’ll take Summer out round the farm this morning. She loves the animals and you can stick your head in your novel,’ Jonathan said, giving her a kiss on the cheek.
   ‘My God, now I remember why I married you.’
   ‘I’ll come with you, Jon,’ Karen said, and Tim nodded.
   I looked at Snowball. It would be just the two of us again; maybe we could go for a romantic meander in the garden. After our adventure on the farm the other day we had stayed close to the holiday house, and I wasn’t sure that it would be a good idea to explore.
   For a while, Snowball and I stayed in the garden, close to where Claire sat in a lawn chair, reading. Chris was inside, Daisy had gone for a run, and the others had gone for a walk. As the morning drew on we decided to visit the hens. We nodded at them in greeting— I was no longer afraid — and they wobbled their heads in response. I knew they weren’t scary now. Being in the country was an education about other animals, ones we didn’t really get in London.
   ‘All right, city cats,’ said Roddy, suddenly appearing from behind the hen enclosure.
   ‘Hey, Roddy,’ said Snowball.
   ‘We need to thank you again for the other day,’ I said, remembering my manners.
   ‘You’re welcome. Anyway what are you guys up to?’ Roddy asked.
   ‘It’s our last day here, we leave tomorrow,’ I explained, feeling relaxed and friendly. I definitely found the country enjoyable, though I missed many things about London, like my friends, especially Tiger, and my other families. I also missed the hustle and bustle, the constant noise. At night here, it was eerily quiet, but back home I could hear cars, voices and the odd siren. Silence took a bit of getting used to.
   ‘In that case, how about I take you to my favourite place?’ suggested Roddy.
   ‘What is it?’ Snowball asked.
   ‘You’ll see, it’s lovely. Come on, come with me.’ He ran off and we sprang after him. As we crossed a different — and thankfully cow-free — field, I realised how nice the country smelled. I breathed in deeply, enjoying the fresh scents. I was happy that we were having a last adventure and with Roddy with us there was no danger involved. Well, I hoped not anyway.
   We set off and took a route that we were more familiar with, passing the outskirts of the field where we’d met the giant cow. There were a few cows there, but they were at the other end of the field and were so busy eating grass they didn’t pay us much attention. I can’t say I was sorry.
   ‘Come on, let’s keep going,’ Roddy said, as we followed close behind him.
   I blinked at Snowball and she blinked back as we came upon a stream.
   ‘I am not a fan of water,’ I stated.
   ‘Nah, me neither, Alfie. But look, there’s a bridge just up here. Come on.’ Roddy led us across a small wooden bridge and then came to a halt. As I looked around, I almost felt my breath being taken away. We were standing in a clearing on the edge of a wood, trees densely surrounding us. Sunlight glinted between the branches and reflected off the leaves, it was beautiful.
   ‘It’s a forest,’ Snowball exclaimed.
   ‘Yeah, it’s my forest,’ Roddy said, although I was pretty sure it wasn’t.
   ‘Wow, it’s beautiful,’ I stated.‘Almost as beautiful as you.’ I nuzzled Snowball. She smiled coyly and raised her whiskers.
   ‘It reminds me a bit of my old home,’ Snowball said. ‘We had a big wood just outside our garden and I would chase squirrels, although they could be mean. They were particularly protective of their nuts.’
   ‘I can see why you’d miss it,’ I conceded. As much as I loved Edgar Road and London, I did see the beauty of this place.
   We stood at the bottom of a large tree. Roddy said that if we climbed up it we would see the most spectacular view. Snowball looked at me questioningly and gestured towards the tree. I shook my head— I was staying on the ground. I’d been stuck up a tree in the past, twice in fact, and it wasn’t fun. So I stayed put and watched as Roddy and Snowball climbed higher and higher, feeling a little bit jealous and half wishing I could join them. But ultimately I was glad to be on firm ground where I found some leaves to play with.
   After a while I saw Snowball scaling back down and I was relieved that she was managing it easily.
   ‘Right, let’s get back before you’re missed,’ Roddy said, bounding off.
   He took us a different route home, and I felt so energised by the journey, with the wind in my fur, the warming sun above and the tickly green grass beneath my paws, that I started fooling around a bit. I turned and walked backwards.
   ‘What are you doing?’ Snowball asked, raising her whiskers.
   ‘Hey, I can go backwards, look at me,’ I said, showing off. I started trying to run backwards, which wasn’t as easy as I thought — in all honesty, I’d never tried it before. I felt my legs tangle and I tried to turn around but ended up falling on my bottom. Luckily, something soft broke my fall.
   ‘Yelp!’ I said. But what was that smell? I stood up and, trying to get away from the smell, ended up running round in circles — wherever I went, it seemed to follow. I heard laughter from Roddy and saw that Snowball was hiding behind her paw.
   ‘What?’ I asked.
   ‘You fell into a cow pat!’ she said. I looked down and saw that the soft thing that had broken my fall was in fact the source of the terrible smell. Those monster cows had left a monster mess, and I was now covered in it! As I walked dejectedly home, my earlier energy deflated, I knew that there would be only one thing for it: a bath. I really dislike baths, or actually water in any form — even rain upsets me, and don’t get me started on puddles. But I knew I had no choice.
   We said a fond farewell to Roddy back at the house.
   ‘You’re a lucky guy,’ he said to me, gesturing towards Snowball. She purred and looked coy.
   ‘I know I am — she’s wonderful. Thank you for everything,’ I said, as I bade him a warm goodbye.
   I was still covered in mess and I didn’t dare enter the house. ‘Maybe if you go inside, you can miaow loudly and get someone’s attention?’ I said to Snowball. As much as I hated baths, I really wanted to get this mess off me as soon as possible.
   Snowball went off and returned after what seemed like ages with Claire. I was beginning to really hate the smell. It was another reason for me to add cows to my list of things to be avoided.
   ‘What on earth?’ Claire said. ‘Snowball was making such a racket, I thought something was wrong.’ She took a closer look at me. ‘Oh God, Alfie, did you roll in something bad?’ I miaowed to show my disagreement — as if I would do anything like this on purpose!
   Claire wrapped me in a towel to carry me inside, holding me at arm’s length as she took me straight to the bathroom. I could see that Snowball found the whole thing amusing; we would be having words about that later. As Claire ran a shallow bath, muttering about the way I smelled, I stayed very still. She gently put me in the water and I tried not to squirm, but as the warm wet stuff started to engulf my body, I found it so uncomfortable that I wriggled a bit. I wasn’t sure which was worse, the bath or the smell. Actually, it was definitely the smell.
   ‘Keep still, Alfie,’ she said crossly as I squirmed. I couldn’t stay still. Eventually, after what felt like forever, Claire carefully lifted me out and dried me off.‘Go and lie by the fire, you’ll soon be all dry and warm,’ she said. She didn’t need to ask twice, and I quickly ran out of the room.
   I curled up by the fire and Snowball joined me.
   ‘You smell much better, thank goodness,’ she said, nuzzling into my neck.
   ‘You know, I’m going to miss a few things about this holiday but the fire is definitely one of the things I’ll miss most,’ I said, yawning. What an eventful day we’d had. I closed my eyes, and soon I was dreaming of pilchards.
   A while later, I was aware of voices as I woke up, and sensed the presence of everyone in the living room.
   ‘I can’t believe we have to leave in the morning,’ said Jonathan. I kept my eyes closed, enjoying the warmth in my fur as I listened. I could picture him, stretched out on the sofa. He sounded quite mellow. Jonathan was often uptight, and it was clear the holiday had done him good.
   ‘It’s been a good holiday though, mate,’ Tim said.
   ‘I’m just worried about how Alfie’s going to be you know, if …’ I heard Claire say. I pricked up my ears. I could tell that Snowball was still asleep next to me. She made this really sweet noise as she slept. Some called it snoring but to me it was music.
   ‘And Snowball,’ Karen added. ‘It’s weird, I never thought cats were like that, we’ve always been led to believe they’re solitary creatures, certainly not animals that mate for life.’
   ‘Like lobsters,’ Tim said.
   ‘What?’ Jonathan asked. I was trying to follow this conversation but it wasn’t proving easy.
   ‘You know, lobsters, they mate for life,’ Tim explained.
   ‘But look at them,’ Claire said, sounding sad.‘Snuggled up together. They definitely love each other.’
   ‘God, I feel guilty already,’ said Tim.‘But this time, it’s not my family I might be letting down, but my cat.’
   ‘It might not even happen,’ said Karen.
   I gave Snowball a gentle nudge, but she was fast asleep. This conversation made no sense to me, and my fur suddenly felt freezing cold.
   ‘It’ll be such a shame if you did,’ Claire said.
   ‘Anyway it might not happen,’ Karen repeated, indicating that that was the end of the conversation.
   What on earth were they talking about? It was as if they were talking about something that would be bad for me and Snowball. I tried to put it out of my mind but I couldn’t.
   As the humans all went to sort out dinner that evening, and Jonathan put Summer to bed, I finally got Snowball on her own.
   ‘I heard something weird when you were sleeping. Your family were talking about something strange, but I didn’t understand what. It sounded like something that might happen to us. Do you know anything about it?’
   Snowball surveyed me with her cool blue eyes.‘What do you mean?’ She sounded shocked; she obviously didn’t know anything.
   ‘Tim said something about letting his cat down if it happened. Karen said it might not happen, but I don’t know what “it” is. I didn’t like the sound of it though.’
   ‘Alfie, you’re talking in riddles! I have no idea what you’re going on about. We both know what you’re like, always looking for drama.’ Snowball yawned and stretched. She didn’t seem worried but I couldn’t shake the feeling that all wasn’t well.
   ‘OK, if you say so, but let’s see if we hear anything.’
   ‘Of course, Alfie. I love you, and I love that you worry so much, but we’ve had a wonderful trip together. Let’s just focus on that.’
   I couldn’t argue.
   Chapter Five [Ea?oeiea: i_005.jpg]
   I was suffering from what I had learnt were called post-holiday blues. Being home was exciting at first. I saw Tiger and my other friends and was reunited with my other humans on Edgar Road, which of course was lovely. Still though, I was fed up. I missed spending all my time with Snowball; I still saw her but not as much. I also missed the country walks, the fresh air, the romance, the fire we slept in front of… Even the hens. And of course it had rained every day in London since we’d been home, so after my initial visits to all my friends I had been largely stuck indoors. I felt as limp as the weather. I was totally bored and listless.
   And there was something bothering me. I was still a little perplexed by the confusing things I’d heard on the last day of the holiday. No one had said anything about it, so I still had no idea what they had been discussing. Snowball and I had been listening out for any more clues, but apart from the usual hushed conversations that humans were so keen on, I hadn’t noticed anything amiss and neither had she. Perhaps she was right, we should just ignore it and not worry. It was probably nothing … So why did I still feel so unsettled? I tried to tell myself it was the post-holiday blues that were making me feel so rattled, nothing more.
   As I sat on the living room windowsill, I saw a man putting something on a nearby lamppost. Soon after, I saw Tiger approaching my front gate. I ran to the kitchen, dived through the cat flap and made my way round to the front of the house. My blues were momentarily cheered at the sight of my friend.
   ‘Hey, Alfie,’ Tiger said, a bit breathlessly.
   ‘What’s going on?’ I asked. She lifted her head towards the lamppost and I saw that there was a picture of a tabby cat on it, along with some words — which, of course, being a cat, I couldn’t read.‘What is that?’ I asked.
   ‘Not sure, there were two others that went up on lampposts while you were away. None of us cats know what they mean.’
   ‘I’m not sure either.’ I felt puzzled. ‘Let’s go and see the others,’ I suggested.‘See if they know anything.’ Something was bothering me, but I wasn’t sure what. As we made our way to the end of the street, we saw the other two cat pictures, but we didn’t recognise the cats.
   ‘Are these the only other two?’ I asked Tiger.
   ‘Yup. Weird, huh?’
   We found Elvis and Nellie at our usual meeting place. They were sitting away from the damp grass, on a strip of concrete that was relatively dry.
   ‘Guess what?’ Tiger said.
   ‘What?’ Nellie loved drama and looked excited.
   ‘We just saw a cat picture going up on a lamppost,’ said Tiger.
   ‘Another one? What can they mean?’ Elvis asked.
   ‘I’m not sure,’ I said.‘But something is niggling me.’
   ‘I think we should definitely keep an eye on it. This all seems very strange,’ Tiger said. As we lapsed into silence, Salmon, our nemesis cat, approached.
   ‘He might know,’ hissed Nellie, although we were all loath to ask him.
   ‘What are you up to?’ Salmon asked, narrowing his eyes and flicking his tail in a hostile way. Salmon was the meanest of cats and never missed an opportunity to be horrible to us.
   ‘Just hanging out with friends, something you know nothing about,’ Tiger replied. She was the only one of us not scared of Salmon.
   ‘Very funny, Tiger.’
   ‘Salmon,’ Elvis cut in quickly.‘We just saw another cat picture going up. Do you know what they mean?’
   Salmon flicked his tail again.‘Of course I know, but I can’t possibly tell you.’
   ‘Which means he doesn’t have a clue,’ I cut in.
   ‘I do! I know far more than you think,’ he hissed.‘Why don’t you find that girlfriend of yours and ask her what’s going on.’
   ‘What do you mean?’ I felt angry now — how dare he bring Snowball into this.
   ‘I just heard her owners talking to mine, and let’s just say it doesn’t look good for you.’ He licked his lips, looking pleased with himself.
   ‘Salmon, tell me right now, or I’ll, I’ll …’
   ‘You’ll what? Set your girlfriend on me?’ he laughed, and before I could say anything else, he bounded off.
   ‘What could Salmon mean by that?’ Nellie asked. But as my cat friends looked at me, worry in their eyes, I knew there could only be bad news to come. I had to get to Snowball.
   I found Snowball waiting by my front gate. As soon as I saw her, I knew that something was very wrong.
   ‘We’re in trouble, Alfie,’ she said.
   ‘What have we done?’ I asked. I was prone to a bit of trouble but I didn’t think I had done anything lately.
   ‘No,’ said Snowball, wiggling further into the bush. It was still a bit damp from the rain but she looked so serious that I didn’t complain.‘Not that sort of trouble. You know that conversation you heard? Well, it seems it wasn’t nothing after all.’
   ‘Snowball, slow down, you’re not making any sense at all.’
   ‘OK, well, Tim and Karen were talking to Daisy and Christopher last night. It seems that we’re moving away, because Tim’s been offered a really good job.’
   ‘Moving away?’ I asked, my heart sinking into my paws. The Snells had been through a terrible time when they first moved to Edgar Road. It had taken quite a while and a lot of planning from me to make them part of our community, but we had done it in the end. Surely they wouldn’t move away now?
   ‘The worst thing is that the job is in Cheshire.’ Snowball looked glum.
   ‘Cheshire? Where is that? Is it far away?’ I asked, fearing the answer.
   ‘Yes, it’s hours away. Christopher will have to go to a different school, although he doesn’t mind, and Daisy said she would be travelling for work so much that it didn’t matter to her. And she has friends in London she can stay with. Of course, no one asked me what I thought.’
   ‘Of course they didn’t. Humans can be so selfish. Hold on, does this mean you’re leaving me, Edgar Road, us?’ My eyes were so wide I thought they might ping off my face. Salmon had been right.
   ‘I don’t know when exactly, but it sounds like it.’ Snowball looked sad and I started to panic. She couldn’t go, not when we were so in love. Not when we’d had such a wonderful holiday together. Though I knew full well that although human life worked very differently to cat life, there was no way they could be so cruel to us. It had to be a mistake. It just had to be.
   Snowball and I moped around for the rest of the day.
   ‘I don’t want to go home,’ she said. She was angry and confused, as was I. I did try to be positive, but there’s only so much of that you can do in such a dire situation, especially when you have the post-holiday blues to boot. I led Snowball into my house and we curled up in my basket in the living room, both of us upset and worried and trying to take some comfort where we could. We must have fallen asleep because when we woke up, Claire, Jonathan, Summer, Tim and Karen were all staring at us.
   ‘It’s as if they know they’re going to be separated,’ Claire said.
   ‘Alfie is a very perceptive cat,’ Jonathan added.
   ‘But how can they know? They’re cats,’ Tim said.
   ‘Miaow,’ I objected.
   ‘See,’ Jonathan said. ‘Alfie knows.’
   Snowball glared at her owners as, now fully awake, we sat side by side.
   ‘Maybe …’ Karen sounded uncertain. ‘Maybe you should try to explain it to them, properly. You know, man to cat?’
   ‘Really?’ Tim asked.‘You want me to talk to the cats and tell them?’
   ‘I think it’s a good idea,’ Claire concurred.
   ‘Yes, go on, Tim.’ I wasn’t sure if Jonathan was goading Tim because he found it amusing, but he was smirking a bit. I gave him one of my looks and thankfully he had the grace to look ashamed. After all, this was clearly no joking matter.
   Tim cleared his throat. Snowball and I looked at him expectantly.
   ‘We love living here, on this street, and we’ve made some great friends.’ Tim looked really uncomfortable. ‘But just as moving here was a big decision for our family, and far from ideal at the time, actually, we have had to make another difficult decision. You see, Snowball and Alfie, I’ve been offered a dream job, a really amazing opportunity. It means we can buy our own home again, so I can give my family the security they need and deserve.’ He was a bit pink. I looked at Snowball, who looked at me. I felt a sense of disbelief. Although I had heard they were moving already, having this confirmation from Tim wasn’t making it any easier. I had been holding onto the hope that the rumours weren’t true.
   ‘As much as we hate to leave here,’ Tim continued,‘having spoken to the family, we feel we have to take this opportunity. We’ll be leaving in a few weeks. It’s all happened very quickly actually.’ He looked at us expectantly but we just stared back at him. ‘And I never wanted to part you two,’ he added.
   ‘Oh, Alfie, it’ll be all right,’ Claire said, scooping me up in her arms. But I knew it wouldn’t. As I looked at Snowball sitting in my cat basket, her manner changed from sad to angry, I knew it would never be all right again. I felt a sense of rage building inside me. How could they do this to us?
   I thought about running away. Maybe Snowball and I could run back to the country, to where we’d been so happy, but I knew we wouldn’t. I couldn’t do the homeless thing again, no matter how much I loved her, and I knew that even though I was angry with our families right now, we both loved them very much. It was an impossible, impossible situation.
   All I could hear as the humans began trying to reassure us was the sound of my heart breaking.
   Chapter Six
   [Ea?oeiea: i_006.jpg]
   It was the day before they were due to leave. The day before my true love was to be ripped away from me. I had been beside myself since Tim’s chat a few weeks ago. Snowball and I had snatched as much time together as we could but something had changed: it was awkward between us, because we knew that it was coming to an end. When we spent time together, it hurt badly. We both felt so sad that our time together was almost over. Yet again, I was losing someone that I loved; how much could my cat heart take?
   Claire looked glum as she picked me up and gave me a kiss on the top of my head. Jonathan looked sombre. I had heard them talking, and although they were sad for Snowball and me, I knew they’d also miss the good friends they had made in Edgar Road. I didn’t have the energy to feel sorry for them; I didn’t even have the energy to miaow. I just wanted to curl up in my bed and cry silently.
   Saying goodbye is one of life’s biggest cruelties and I had spent a lot of time in my short life saying it. It never got any easier, and this looked set to be the worst one yet.
   Claire carried me next door to say a final goodbye to the Snells and Snowball. Tim answered the door, and everyone hugged awkwardly as we walked into the house. It was almost all packed up and the sight of the boxes made me want to wail. Claire gently put me down.
   ‘Snowball’s in the garden, she’s very unhappy,’ Karen said as she led the way.
   I went into the garden and sat next to Snowball. The humans stood on the other side of the patio door but I could feel their eyes on us. For a few minutes neither of us spoke.
   ‘So this is it then,’ Snowball said. She raised her whiskers but I could see the despondency in the gesture.
   ‘I just don’t know what to say,’ I replied.‘I wish I could say that we could do something to stop this, but for a cat who is used to solving problems, I have nothing here.’ I felt the pain of her impending departure in every fibre of my fur.
   ‘Remember how awful I was to you when I first met you,’ she said.
   ‘Yes, you weren’t very nice. Even after I rescued you, when you accidentally got yourself lost all those years ago. But I never gave up.’
   ‘And you taught me so much. I don’t want to go, Alfie. I don’t want to leave you but at least I can say I learnt a lot from you.’
   ‘I can’t even begin to tell you how much I’m going to miss you,’ I told her. She rested her head on mine. I almost felt as if I would stop breathing.
   ‘Alfie, don’t come and see me tomorrow. I don’t know if I could bear it,’ she said. I could feel her pain as a mirror to my own.
   ‘I’m not sure I could either. But remember I will always love you and you are in my heart forever,’ I said.
   ‘And mine.’ Her voice broke and we stayed like that for as long as we could bear it, before we had to tear ourselves away.
   Cats might not produce tears, but believe me, we were both weeping. And when I slowly made my way back inside, I saw that Jonathan, Claire, Karen and Tim all had tears in their eyes.
   Our‘purrfect’ love had touched everyone. I just wished it didn’t hurt so much.
   I sat in my front garden staring at a big removal van. I normally loved the sight of removal vans, as they heralded the arrival of a new family, an area of fascination for a doorstep cat like me, but today as I smoothed down my grey fur, I hated that van. It was taking the Snells’ furniture away, followed by the family and my beloved Snowball. The nightmare we had first heard about on holiday was actually coming true.
   I didn’t know how to cope with the despair I was feeling as I stared at the removal van. I wanted to tear myself away and run inside, but I couldn’t stop watching. I was both horrified and mesmerised.
   I heard a noise as my best cat friend, Tiger, squeezed under my gate. Although Tiger could be feisty and she hadn’t exactly been Snowball’s biggest fan when they first met, she had thawed towards her and the two cat women in my life had formed a rapport, almost becoming friends.
   ‘Oh dear,’ she said, looking at me. Tiger wasn’t known for sugar-coating anything.
   ‘Look, they’re filling the van, and by the end of today they’ll all be gone,’ I said, wanting to yowl with pain.
   ‘I know and I am sorry, Alfie, it’s really tough. Oh boy, I don’t know what to say. Look, I know you and Snowball have already said goodbye but don’t you want to see her one last time?’
   ‘Tiger, every day since we heard the news it’s as if we’ve been waiting to say goodbye and it’s been horrible. I would rather be chased by a dog and get stuck up a tree than go through this again. Besides, we said goodbye properly yesterday. I promised her I’d stay indoors today — but Icouldn’t.’
   ‘Look, come on, I’ll take you to the park and we can chase birds, or tease dogs, it’s your choice.’ She patted me with her paw.‘I promise I won’t let you get stuck up a tree.’ I knew she was trying to cheer me up but I couldn’t feel anything but gloom at the idea of never seeing Snowball again.
   ‘OK, but I can’t promise I’ll be good company. In fact, I know I’ll be terrible company.’
   ‘Yeah, well, I’m used to that,’ Tiger said, but she gave me an affectionate look at the same time.
   I tried to take my mind off Snowball, and goodness knows Tiger did all she could, but it was still too raw. Tiger tried everything to cheer me up: finding butterflies for me to chase, telling me how Nellie tripped on something— she’s a bit clumsy — and landed on Rocky, which apparently was funny if you were there. She even tried to involve me in the mystery of the pictures on the lamppost, but I couldn’t muster up enthusiasm for anything.
   I felt as if I would never be happy again, but I was clinging onto the hope that one day I would start to feel better. I knew I would eventually; I had been through enough in my life to know that although heartbreak never fully went away, it did fade— you just had to give it time. I was quite wise, having accumulated much life experience during my eight cat years. I would never stop loving Snowball or missing her, but the way I was feeling right now would get easier. The pain of losing someone you loved never totally disappeared, but you didget used to living with it. That was how I saw it.
   ‘I’m sorry, Tiger. I’m so miserable. I’m just not great company,’ I said as I lay down by my favourite flowerbed. A leaf flopped on my head and I brushed it away listlessly.
   ‘It’s fine, I understand. Remember when Tom went away?’ Tom was a grumpy cat who used to live on our street. He was sort of Tiger’s boyfriend, although she never seemed to like him that much. His owner had died and we had all rallied around trying to figure out where he could live, but a relative took Tom to live with them and he was happy to go. Tiger had been a bit sad but then she didn’t exactly love Tom the way I loved Snowball, although for a few days she had been like a cat with a sore head.
   ‘Yeah, you were really scratchy,’ I said.
   ‘OK, yeah, so you’re miserable and I was scratchy but the principle is the same. We’re friends, and friends stick together no matter what — even when they’re not the best company. So if you want to wallow or sulk or cry or even be angry, I’m here for you. Whatever you need, Alfie, I’ll always be here for you.’
   ‘Tiger, you’re such a good friend and I really appreciate you. I hope you know that.’
   ‘Well, good, and luckily for you I’m not going anywhere.’
   ‘Please don’t, I couldn’t bear to lose you as well.’ And then I crumpled. To preserve what little dignity I had left, I shuffled fully under the nearest bush and then I yowled. I could feel the pain in every sound that escaped my mouth. Finally, when I was exhausted and could make no more noise, I emerged, tired and feeling as if I had lost something of myself. Tiger, who had been waiting patiently, put her paw on mine.
   ‘Come on, Alfie, I’ll take you home,’ she said.
   The van had left by the time we got back to my house and so had the Snells’ car. They had gone. Tiger walked me to the back door and bade me farewell at the cat flap. I went through it, although even that felt like a major effort. I padded sadly to the kitchen. Claire, Jonathan and Summer and Polly, Matt and their children — Henry and Martha — were all there. They looked at me and I saw the sympathy in their eyes. Well, not the children — they just played on the floor, oblivious to my pain. I noticed that my favourite food, pilchards, sat in my bowl, but I had no appetite.
   ‘Alfie,’ Claire said. I just looked at each of them, sadly, and walked out, ignoring the food and going upstairs to my bed on the landing. I curled up in it and begged for sleep to come.
   Chapter Seven
   [Ea?oeiea: i_007.jpg]
   I sat on the sofa, listlessly watching the sun stream through the window. It had been a week since Snowball left, and the longing I felt, just to see her, speak to her, hear her voice, was all consuming. I had barely been out; I didn’t even want to see my friends. I just wanted to be alone with my poor, aching heart. Even Summer’s lovely smile had been unable to cheer me up, although I did put on a brave face for her, letting her cuddle me and even pull my tail, although that took all the energy I had.
   This evening, my Polish family— Franceska, big Tomasz, Aleksy and little Tomasz — were all coming over in yet another effort to cheer me up. It was Claire’s idea. I wanted to try to be more like my old self, if only for my humans’ sakes, as they were being so kind and trying so hard, but I was oh so tired. It was like Ihad an illness of the heart.
   ‘Alfie?’ Jonathan sat down next to me, interrupting my thoughts. I nudged my head lethargically against his arm. It was the most I could offer.
   ‘Right, Alfie,’ he said. He was wearing his work clothes, the smart ones he normally kept away from me in case a bit of my fur snuck onto them, and he had a beer in his hand. This must be serious if he was risking his best clothes, I thought, and I couldn’t resist rubbing my head against his suit sleeve. I might be a bit down in the dumps but still … Especially as he didn’t even tell me off! He took a sip of his beer and then, looking solemn, he put it down on the coffee table.
   ‘I know that this sucks,’ he said, looking slightly embarrassed.‘We were very sad that Snowball had to go — we knew how close you two had become. But it’s human stuff. Jobs, houses, schools, it all added up to the Snells having to move away, and unfortunately you’re a casualty of that.’ He paused to lean forwards and take another sip of beer. I looked at him; I had no idea where this was going.‘The thing is that women, well, we love them and we lose them sometimes — but then you might find someone like I found Claire.’ He beamed as if he had solved all my problems.
   ‘Miaow.’He found Claire, really? I think he’ll find I handed her to him on a plate! I rolled my eyes, as I thought back to my careful matchmaking when I first arrived on Edgar Road.
   ‘Claire is wonderful, and I love her deeply. She may have her moments, but when I think about some of the women I have been with … Goodness, I still shudder to remember them.’
   No, I still had no idea where this was going.
   ‘So, anyway, the thing is, you need to dust yourself off and get back out there. You know, back in the game. Stalking alleyways for new cats the way we go to bars.’
   Was he for real? Was he telling me to go down an alleyway?
   ‘You see,’ Jonathan continued. ‘The best way to get over heartbreak is to put yourself out there, even if it’s just for a bit of fun. Oh yes, the rebound is actually quite healthy, and you must have ways of meeting cat ladies. That Tiger down the road is pretty cute for a stripy cat. Anyway, it’s like they say, you need to get back on the horse.’
   He looked pleased with himself as he downed the rest of his beer and stood up. I looked at him. Was he mad? Horses? Tiger? I might be heartbroken but Jonathan had lost the plot. If I could talk to humans I would have had a lot of questions to ask him. Instead, I put my head down, even more exhausted than before.
   Claire came into the room.
   ‘Oh, there you are.’ She came up to Jonathan and kissed him.‘How did it go?’ she asked.
   ‘Yeah, I think I got through to him,’ he said as I lay down on the sofa and curled myself up into a ball.
   ‘Really? He still looks sad,’ Claire pointed out.
   ‘Give him a bit of time. We had a chat, like you asked me to. You know — man to cat. It’s all good.’
   As they both left the room, Claire looked back at me— she clearly wasn’t convinced. But then again, neither was I.
   After a short catnap, I got up and greeted my other families. Although the adults could deal with my heartache, I knew the children couldn’t, especially my first-ever child friend, Aleksy, who was nearly eleven now and had always been a sensitive boy. He would hate to see me sad. Little Tomasz, who wasn’t so little, nearly as big as Aleksy despite being three years younger, was more of a physical child, and he didn’t really pick up on emotions. Polly and Matt’s children, Henry, who was almost five, and three-year-old Martha, were too young to understand my pain. As I played with them, mainly with a ball and ribbons, I made a huge effort. It wasn’t easy, but to see my friends smiling and hear them laugh was a tonic. I made a special fuss of all the children, especially Aleksy, and it did cheer me up just a tiny little bit. It was lovely to be surrounded by the love of my families. Having all of them there was such a treat, and I just about managed to be like the old me for a short while.
   My families got together frequently. Polly and Matt lived on the same street and I often spent time at their house, where they had been kind enough to install a cat flap for me. Frankie and Tomasz lived a few streets away, above the restaurant they owned. The restaurant food was delicious.
   Talking of food, I was distracted by the smell of it. Tomasz had brought a feast from his restaurant for everyone and he’d brought me sardines which, even though my appetite wasn’t quite what it normally was, were quite welcome. I tried my best to appreciate the food and count my blessings, although it wasn’t easy. Nothing at the moment was easy — it was as if my paws were stuck in mud.
   ‘So how is Alfie?’ Franceska asked Claire. I could hear them, as they had a habit of talking in front of me as if I didn’t understand. They did the same with the younger children.
   ‘Sad. He seems sad. He’s been off his food and he’s barely been out. I know he’ll recover but it’s heartbreaking,’ Claire said. She liked to read books, and lately she had been reading classic romances, which seemed to have made her even softer than normal.‘I just feel so terrible forhim, to love and then to lose. We’ve all been there, haven’t we?’
   ‘He’ll be fine,’ Jonathan cut in. ‘He’s a man, he’ll soon bounce back.’
   ‘Typical male point of view,’ Polly added.
   ‘I’m sure Jon’s right. He’ll soon be his old self,’ said Matt.
   ‘Hey, why doesn’t he come and stay with us for a couple of days,’ big Tomasz suggested.‘A change of scene might help.’
   ‘That’s not a bad idea,’ Claire said.‘Maybe next weekend?’
   I gave up eating and curled up by Franceska’s feet, nestling into her legs. A weekend away wouldn’t solve my problems, but it would be nice to be with them all and it would mean I wouldn’t have to look at the empty house next door. Plus, I’d have the boys to keep me occupied and I’d get to spend time with my cat friend Dustbin. I felt something akin to hope for the first time since I had heard that Snowball was leaving.
   ‘Yeah, can he come?’ Aleksy said, sounding excited. It seemed it was all settled. I would take my broken heart away for the weekend.
   That night, I was thinking about my weekend away when I heard Jonathan and Claire arguing. It was a funny kind of argument though, because ever since Summer was born, they rowed in whispered voices. I was worried. After all, whilst I had enough problems of my own, I didn’t want anyone else to be unhappy — I wasn’t sure I could bear it. I crept closer to their room to listen.
   ‘Look, we can get a second opinion,’ I heard Jonathan say.
   ‘You mean a third opinion. Jon, I am trying to tell you, it’s pointless, and it’s time we faced facts. I’m OK, really. We were lucky with Summer, but there aren’t going to be any more babies. I’m sorry I can’t give you another child but at least we have her.’
   ‘I know, we’ve got Summer and Alfie … It’s fine, as long as you’re all right. I mean … OK, yes, I would ideally love another child but it’s more important that our family — you, me, Sum and Alfie — are all right. I love you.’ I felt a bit relieved, it seemed they weren’t really arguing after all.
   ‘No, I’m fine. Please don’t worry, this isn’t going to send me back to my black days, it really isn’t. I’m disappointed, but I think deep down I knew, the tests just confirmed it.’ Claire did have dark moments, which made us all worry terribly, but it was only when things went wrong. She seemed to be coping with life so much better these days — there was no doubt that Jonathan and Summer had brought great joy into her life. It was if they had taught her how to be happy.
   ‘So we’re OK? Then why are we arguing?’
   ‘I don’t know.’ I saw Claire sit down on the bed.‘Jonathan, I don’t want Summer to be an only child.’
   ‘But you just said you were OK?’
   ‘I am, but that doesn’t mean we can’t adopt. There are so many children out there who need a good, loving home. We’ve got all that and more. We have space, we can afford it …’
   ‘I don’t know.’ I could hear the doubt in Jonathan’s voice.
   ‘But why not?’
   ‘Because.’ I could almost hear Jonathan folding his arms across his chest. He could be such a child sometimes.
   ‘Because why, darling?’ I saw through a crack in the door that Claire had put her arm on his.
   ‘It’s complicated. I just think it’s a big step, taking in someone else’s child. And then the adoption process is gruelling, we might not even be accepted.’
   ‘Oh, Jon, I’m sure we will, I’ve spoken to Dad … We might not get a baby, but I know that they are crying out for homes for older children. We’re not criminals or insane …’ She attempted a laugh.
   ‘I’m not so sure. I mean about adopting, not being a criminal. Or insane.’
   ‘OK, but will you at least agree to let me look into it?’ I heard Claire’s pleading voice and then Jonathan’s sigh.
   ‘If you really have your heart set on it then we can look into it, but I’m not promising anything.’
   ‘Hey, like you said, we might not even be accepted, but at least let me find out. I don’t want to wonder about it, that’s all.’
   ‘Hey, I’d be more agreeable to you adopting a new girlfriend for Alfie,’ Jonathan joked. He often did this when he was uncomfortable, tried to make a joke. A pretty poor joke, in my opinion.
   ‘Jon, that’s not funny. But now you mention it …’
   ‘I was joking,’ he said.
   ‘I know you were. OK, let’s go to bed.’ As I saw them settle down for the night, I went back to my basket, thankful that everything was fine and there was nothing to worry about. Apart from myself of course.
   Chapter Eight
   [Ea?oeiea: i_008.jpg]
   ‘So you’ve never been in love?’ I asked. I was in the small yard behind the restaurant with Dustbin. Dustbin was my friend and the cat who sort of worked for Tomasz’s restaurant. He was what he referred to as feral; he had never lived in a house before and liked it that way. He lived in theyard outside the restaurant and Franceska and big Tomasz’s flat and he kept the vermin under control. We’d known each other since I had started visiting here and he was also one of the wisest cats I’d ever met.
   It was nearing the end of the weekend and I have to say that it had done me the world of good. I’d eaten well, having found my appetite, and I found it easier not to pine, being a bit further away from Snowball’s old house.
   ‘Can’t say I have,’ Dustbin replied, eating some leftovers that Tomasz had put out for him, baring his teeth at a foolhardy mouse who had come a bit too close. Dustbin was the master of multi-tasking.‘I’m not that kind of cat. I like my own company most of the time. I like hanging out with you and passing the time of day, and I don’t mind hunting with some of the other cats around here, but romance and all that — nah, it’s not for me.’
   ‘But love is wonderful,’ I continued, feeling quite poetic, despite the fact we were surrounded by bins and rodents in a pretty ugly yard. It certainly wasn’t like my last time away, in the country. A picture of Snowball and me popped into my head, running through the long grass without a care in the world, and I yowled.
   ‘That’s as maybe, but you’re not feeling wonderful now,’ Dustbin pointed out. I couldn’t argue with that. ‘Look, mate, I know you loved that cat. I remember when we rescued her when she ran away, I saw how much she meant to you then. I’m sorry it’s been so tough for you.’
   ‘Thanks, Dustbin. And you’re right, but spending the weekend here has been such a tonic, I do feel a bit better.’
   ‘Yeah, well, I think it’s good for you to have a break from home, and sometimes a bit of distance can give you perspective. I know that when I have a problem, going off to roam away from here often gives me clarity.’
   ‘You’re a wise old cat, even if you’ve never been in love,’ I said, and I meant it.‘But I’d better go now, I think my visit here is nearly over.’
   ‘Ta, Alfie. Right, make sure you come back again soon, now you’ve got a bit more time on your paws. And maybe I’ll teach you to hunt,’ he grinned.
   ‘No. I mean, yes, I’ll come back, but no to hunting. It never ends well for me.’ I shuddered. The last time I had been bitten by a cheeky mouse. It was too humiliating.
   ‘OK, but we can hang out nonetheless. I have to get on now, there’s this awful rat who thinks he can come here whenever he wants, and it’s time for me to show him who’s boss. Unless you want to come with me?’
   ‘Um, as tempting an offer as that is, I think I’ll give it a miss,’ I said, backing away.
   Yes, the weekend had done me some good. The boys had been fun to hang out with: we’d played football — or paw-ball — at the park and I had been given plenty of treats. I felt as if the adults were being extra kind to me, especially food-wise, like they were trying to feed me up. I missed my other humans, especially little Summer, but I was happier than I had been since Snowball left. Although missing Snowball was still occupying most of my time, the weekend had proved a distraction. I couldn’t stop hurting, and I wasn’t sure if I wanted to. I loved her so much that the pain was a reminder of that, and in some ways it comforted me — although I understood that that made little sense.
   I made my way back up to the flat where Aleksy and little Tomasz were playing a game on their games console. Franceska was sitting down, which was rare for her, and having a cup of tea. Big Tomasz was sitting at their small dining table, planning menus for the following week. It was a lovely, harmonious family scene.
   ‘Ha ha, I win,’ Aleksy shouted, punching his arm in the air.
   ‘You cheated,’ little Tomasz replied.
   ‘I didn’t, how could I cheat?’ Aleksy looked at his brother who threw the game controller down in a huff. OK, maybe not so lovely.
   ‘Enough, boys,’ Franceska said.‘If you can’t play nicely together you lose the games. And anyway, we have to go soon to take Alfie home.’
   ‘Oh no, does he have to go?’ Aleksy came over and picked me up. Little Tomasz stroked me, all arguments forgotten as I nestled into the boys and purred.
   ‘Yes, unfortunately, then we’ll come home and you have to do homework. It’s school tomorrow.’ The boys started complaining and big Tomasz shushed them as Franceska went to get my things together. They decided that, as it was warm, we would walk home, though I got carried some of the way as I still hadn’t fully regained my strength. I was glad to be in big Tomasz’s arms when we walked past the Snells’ house. There was a ‘To Let’ sign outside it now, which made me feel terrible all over again; I was almost as empty as that house.
   We stood on the doorstep and Jonathan opened the door.
   ‘So glad you’re here,’ he said.‘Can you all stay for a bit?’
   ‘Just for half an hour,’ Franceska replied. ‘The boys have homework.’
   ‘I’ll put the kettle on then,’ Jonathan said. As I walked in, I immediately knew something was different. I could sense something, or I could smell something — I wasn’t sure what it was. As big Tomasz put me down in the hall, I knew that something was wrong.
   ‘Oh my,’ I heard Franceska exclaim from the kitchen. I stayed where I was, trying to figure out what was going on. The boys stayed with me.
   ‘My goodness, what on earth?’ I heard big Tomasz say as he too entered the kitchen.
   ‘It was Claire’s idea and I’m not sure it’s one of her better ones,’ Jonathan replied, sounding tetchy.
   ‘It’s gorgeous,’ Franceska said.
   ‘I tried to talk her out of it but she wouldn’t budge,’ Jonathan moaned. ‘I mean really!’ He didn’t sound happy. Just what was going on?
   ‘Well, you gave me the idea. You know, when you said you wished we could adopt a new girlfriend for Alfie,’ Claire said.
   ‘Yes, but I was joking and I certainly didn’t mean this.’
   Oh boy! I couldn’t move. Had they got me a new girlfriend? That was crazy. But it made sense with the smell I could detect. Although it didn’t exactly smell like a female cat but, yes, there was a definite scent. There was another cat in this house! Oh, what had Claire done now?
   ‘Well, of course we couldn’t get him a new girlfriend, you don’t just get over love like that,’ Claire snapped.
   Phew! I was relieved, but if it wasn’t a female cat, what was it?
   ‘No, but I’m not sure this is going to help him — or us, for that matter,’ Jonathan snapped back.
   ‘Oh, ignore him. It was fate. I saw an advert on the local Facebook “for sale” page. So we went to see him,’ Claire said.
   Went to see who?
   ‘It was just such brilliant timing. He was supposed to go to a family who had paid a deposit and everything but then changed their minds, so he was ready to go.’
   ‘How old is he?’ big Tomasz asked.
   ‘Fourteen weeks.’
   I felt my fur stand on end.
   ‘It does sound like fate, and he’s very, very beautiful, littlekochanie,’ Franceska said. I heard a tiny little mewing sound.
   ‘Where’s Alfie?’ Jonathan asked.
   I was full of trepidation as I finally walked into the kitchen, terrified as to what I would find. And there, my worst nightmare was confirmed. OK, maybe not my worst nightmare— I mean, it wasn’t a dog! But still I shuddered. Claire was cuddling a bundle of fur. A small, orange-and-black striped bundle with grey eyes. Oh, what had she done?
   ‘Alfie, kitten,’ Summer said, pointing at it.
   ‘Alfie’s kitten?’ Aleksy asked, coming up beside me. ‘Wow, look at him, he’s so cool, I love him!’ We all looked at the kitten. The kitten stared at me. He was tiny, and he was in my kitchen, in my house.
   ‘Yes, darling, that’s right. Everyone, meet George. Alfie, he’s your kitten.’
   Chapter Nine [Ea?oeiea: i_009.jpg]
   My paws were rooted to the spot as Claire bent down to bring me nose to nose with the kitten.My kitten. I felt a wave of panic, as he, George, eyed me suspiciously. He really was incredibly small, and somehow also mesmerising. The children were all so excited by him, but I didn’t know what to do.
   ‘Can I see?’ little Tomasz said, saving me, as the three children crowded round and took turns having a cuddle. George made these quiet and very cute mewing sounds, and I wanted to both take care of him and run away in equal measure.
   I used the distraction of the children fussing over him to head to the back door. I needed some fresh air, time to breath and think. Yes, that was what I should do, just take a few moments to clear my head and then I would come back and deal with the situation. What on earth was Claire thinking? How was I supposed to cope with George when I couldn’t cope with myself?
   At times like this, I couldn’t help thinking that Jonathan was infinitely the more sensible of the two. How on earth could Claire think that getting me a kitten would help me in any way, shape or form?
   I needed to get out. I wanted to go and see Tiger and tell her about this terrible turn of events, so I ran to jump through my cat flap.
   ‘Yowl.’ I hit the cat flap with force, but it didn’t move and bounced me backwards, taking me by surprise as I landed on my tail. Ouch, that hurt.
   ‘Oh goodness, sorry, Alfie.’ Claire rushed forwards.‘We had to close the cat flap because of George. It’s not forever, only until he’s allowed out.’ She looked a bit guilty at this, at least.
   ‘So how is Alfie going to go out?’ Aleksy asked, echoing my thoughts. He was holding George and cuddling him. Normally I might have been put out by the fact that they all seemed far more interested in this striped kitten than me, but I didn’t have the energy to be jealous. Especially as I nowhad a sore tail and no idea how to escape.
   ‘Well, we’ll just have to kind of figure it out I guess,’ Claire said, looking as if she hadn’t thought this through. ‘We’ll let him out if he stands by the door and then when he wants to come in, he can miaow loudly so we hear him. He is a clever cat after all.’ She sounded as if this was the most normal thing, which for me it certainly was not, and Jonathan rolled his eyes. I wished I could do the same; it seemed I was to be a prisoner in my own home. On top of everything else, I had lost my freedom.
   ‘And anyway, he’s been out all day. Alfie, you need to stay in and bond with George,’ she said. Great. I’d had a lovely weekend away and now I was trapped with a kitten. He might be adorable, but still … This was not what I wanted, not at all.
   However, showing my displeasure would have taken energy and, despite the fact that Claire had just managed to make my terrible life even worse, I still loved her. I guessed she was trying to do the right thing. I could hear Franceska saying what a great idea it was and even big Tomasz seemed to agree. It seemed only Jonathan and myself had any reservations about this George. And anyway, what kind of name was that for a kitten?
   As we saw my friends out, I nuzzled the boys, wishing in a way that I could go back with them. How simple my life had been that morning: just me and Dustbin, playing with the boys, sardines on tap, heartbreak. But now… Now I had a kitten and no idea what I was supposed to do with him.
   I went to the living room and Summer came bounding in after me. She cuddled me, a little roughly, as she always does, but I knew she meant well. I worried fleetingly for George. Summer wasn’t the gentlest child and he was so small and fragile.
   ‘Sum, you have to be really careful with George,’ Claire said. I felt immediately relieved. She carried George in and put him on the floor. He stood up, not quite as tiny as he had first seemed now that he was on four legs. I tried to remember being that young but my memory failed me. I remembered when I went to my first home, feeling scared, and then having to face the formidable Agnes, my owner’s other cat. Though she didn’t like me for a few weeks, she eventually became like a sister to me. But that was all I could recall. As George came right up to me, sniffing me, I looked kindlyat him. It wasn’t his fault. He was just a helpless kitten. Oh goodness, he was my helpless kitten now. I nudged gently at him with my nose. I didn’t have it in me to be anything but kind to the poor little thing. As he looked at me with those eyes, waving his little tail gently, I knew that, somehow, I had to take care of him. Hewas my kitten.
   ‘Look, Jonathan, look, Alfie already loves him. I knew it!’ Claire sounded triumphant. George looked at me questioningly. Although Agnes had eventually come round, it had been difficult and scary for me at first, and I couldn’t do that to George. I wouldn’t do it to anyone, but especially not this little chap. But then I’m a tom and we are typically far less difficult than women. Well, I think so anyway! George came closer to me and then Summer approached with a piece of ribbon in her hands. He was wide-eyed as he bounded over to play with it.
   As Summer giggled and George chased the ribbon, Claire looked on happily. Even I couldn’t stop a smile finding its way onto my face.
   ‘I knew it would work out. Adding to our family isn’t a bad thing, Jonathan. In any way we can,’ she said pointedly, giving his cheek a kiss.
   He hugged her back but he didn’t reply.
   That evening we ate our first supper together. Though George had his own bowl of food he kept looking longingly at mine.
   ‘Hello,’ I said warmly, when the humans were out of earshot.
   ‘Hello,’ he replied in his little voice.
   ‘This is your first tea here. I hope you enjoy it.’
   ‘Thank you.’ I could hear his voice shake a little and I thought he must be terrified; he certainly looked it.
   George had special kitten food, which meant they couldn’t leave my food down on the floor in case he ate it. Claire had told me that if I wanted it I had to eat it all at once. This kept getting worse! I, like many cats, liked to graze, not always licking the bowl clean straight away. But now I had to eat it all or lose it. George ate from his bowl tentatively; the poor thing really did seem confused, and after tea, he followed me to the living room.
   ‘Aren’t you going to clean me?’ he asked, as I began my ablutions.
   ‘What? No,’ I replied. ‘You clean yourself.’ I immediately felt guilty for sounding so irritated. It was enough effort to keep myself spick and span, but that wasn’t George’s fault. He looked at me, wide-eyed, and I melted a bit. Damn, he was just so cute.
   ‘My mum always cleaned me,’ he said, sounding so forlorn I wanted to wail. ‘I miss her.’ I almost crumpled. This poor kitten was in a strange home for the first time, and although it happened to all of us, it would take some getting used to for him. Yes, he was lucky to have ended up in such a loving home, but that didn’t mean it was going to be easy for him. I needed to be the strong one for him. I had been thinking about myself too much and someone else needed me more: George.
   ‘Look,’ I said, more gently this time. ‘Watch me and then you can learn how to do it.’ I slowly cleaned myself while he looked on.
   Later that night, Claire announced she was going to bed, picking up George, who had been sleeping on her lap. He yawned and blinked. I followed them upstairs. His tiny bed had been placed next to mine. I climbed into mine and Claire placed George in his. I closed my eyes and drifted off to sleep.
   Some time later, I was woken by distressed mewing. As I opened my eyes and pricked my ears I saw it was George, crying in his bed.
   ‘George? What’s wrong?’ I asked, sleepily.
   ‘I miss my mummy,’ he cried, and I felt very sorry for him. I don’t remember my cat mum, and I knew that George would forget over time, but now he was distraught and I felt my already broken heart break some more.
   ‘I understand,’ I said. ‘I know plenty about missing those you love, but you’ve got us now — me, Claire, Jonathan and Summer and the other families. You’ll be OK.’ The poor mite deserved comfort, so I tried to sound reassuring. I stretched across and climbed into his bed, curling up and wrapping my tail around him, in the way I hoped a parent would.
   ‘Are you my new mummy?’ he asked, looking at me hopefully.
   ‘No, George. I’m male, a boy. A mummy is female.’
   ‘So you’re my dad?’ he persisted.
   ‘Well, no. I mean, not really. But if you like, you can think of me like that. But now it’s time for sleep.’
   ‘OK, Dad.’ George closed his eyes and I curled tighter around his little warm body, feeling an overwhelming need to keep him safe.
   I had suddenly and unwittingly become a father.
   Chapter Ten [Ea?oeiea: i_010.jpg]
   ‘Tiger, it’s not funny,’ I said the following morning, swishing my tail in annoyance as she carried on regardless. I’d managed to get out, although the minute I did, I worried about George. I worried about all my humans, especially the little ones, but this was different; somehow I felt evenmore responsible for him.
   I told him I had to go, which he didn’t seem to understand, but I promised him he’d be fine. He’d quivered as he made me promise I’d be back soon. It was upsetting but I reassured him as much as I could. Poor kid. But Claire and Summer were home, so at least I hadn’t left him on his own. I couldn’t have done that.
   ‘But it is quite funny,’ Tiger said, swishing her tail back at me, when I recounted how I’d had to show George how to use the litter tray. Claire had tried putting him in it yesterday evening but each time he’d been terrified and scrabbled straight back out. Then little Summer tried to playwith the tray, which sent Claire crazy, and so she had to explain to Summer to keep out at all costs while trying to encourage George to use it. Humans! They really had very little idea sometimes.
   So when no one was around I explained to George what it was used for, why he had to use it for now, and how it wouldn’t hurt him. Embarrassingly, I then had to pretend to do my toileting in it by way of a practical demonstration. Although he had been caught short in the kitchen this morning, he had almost got the hang of it already, thanks to me.
   ‘Just the idea of you in the litter tray,’ Tiger finished, still laughing.
   ‘Tiger, listen, yesterday all I had to do was indulge my broken heart and now I’m responsible for a kitten. I can only go out when someone lets me out and ditto back in, which is no good for a doorstep cat is it?’
   She tilted her head in sympathy.‘When can George go out?’
   ‘Claire said a few weeks. He has to have some stuff done at the vet first. I didn’t listen past the word vet.’ I shuddered.
   ‘Sounds as if you’re fond of him already.’
   ‘Well, you can’t help it. Oh, Tiger, you should see him — he’s a bit like a mini you actually. So cute, and I know he’s going to be very handsome when he grows up. And clever! I mean he picked up the litter tray so quickly, and he’s got these lovely eyes and such sweet whiskers, I can’t wait for you to meet him …’
   ‘Oh, Alfie, you sound like a proud parent. You’ll be getting the photos out next.’
   ‘Don’t be silly, cats can’t take photos,’ I snapped, but I saw what she meant. I had been put under George’s spell. I sounded like Claire when she talked about Summer, or Matt when he talked about his two. It seemed I had definitely taken to parenthood, and although I still wasn’t happyin myself, I had to admit that George kept me so busy I barely had time to pine for my beloved Snowball.
   ‘By the way, Alfie, another picture went up yesterday. That makes four cat pictures on lampposts.’
   Again, I felt something niggling at me. I felt like I knew what this was but I couldn’t quite remember. ‘Are the cats from Edgar Road?’ I asked.
   ‘No, none of them, or if they are we’ve never seen them,’ Tiger said. It seemed unlikely that they were from Edgar Road: though not all the cats on our road were friends, and some kept themselves to themselves, we would still recognise most of them.
   ‘I wonder what it is.’
   ‘Well, the others think it’s some kind of cat beauty contest. You know, the owners putting the pictures up of their cats as a way of boasting.’
   I narrowed my eyes at Tiger suspiciously.‘Tiger, you do know that that makes absolutely no sense don’t you?’
   ‘Well, I’m not sure.’
   ‘If it was then don’t you think my picture would be up there?’
   ‘Oh, Alfie, you are one vain cat.’
   ‘OK, fine. But they would have put up a picture of the new kitten, George, at the very least. He’s the best-looking cat around. Next to me.’
   ‘I get your point. Perhaps your owners will put your pictures up soon, and then we’ll know. And if it’s not some weird competition among humans, then what is it?’
   ‘Look, I have enough on my plate with my new charge but I’ll figure it out, I promise.’
   I reluctantly left Tiger to go and play in the park and then I popped into Polly and Matt’s house to say hello. I couldn’t neglect my families totally for my kitten. In any case, I was sure that Summer, who seemed to think George — or Deorge, as she called him — was her new toy, would be taking care of him, or terrorising him, but hopefully the former.
   I felt amazingly free as I leapt through the cat flap and padded into Polly and Matt’s kitchen, where to my surprise they were both sitting at the table. I knew Henry would be at school and Martha at pre-school, but Matt would normally be at work at this time and I’d have Polly to myself. She had been doing something called ‘interior design’ for the last two years and had just finished her course. Apparently she was very good at it, which you could tell because their house was incredibly beautiful, and it was all down to her. She had also helped Claire make our house much better, although she had had to try and combine the Jonathan’s minimalist taste with Claire’s love of scatter cushions, which apparently wasn’t easy. More recently, she had helped big Tomasz redesign his restaurant. Although she didn’t work too much, she had picked up some freelance work now and then, as the children weren’t at home so much.
   I went up to Polly first but she looked at me and blinked as if she hadn’t really seen me.
   ‘Hi, Alfie,’ she said eventually, bending down to stroke me, although it was clearly half-hearted. Matt didn’t even acknowledge me. I immediately knew something was wrong, I could feel it in my fur. I felt my heart drop even further — it would be in my paws at this rate.
   ‘Look, love, it’s not the end of the world. I know that you loved your job but you’re so talented and you’ll find another one,’ Polly said, giving Matt’s hand a squeeze. I rubbed Matt’s legs in reassurance but he didn’t seem to notice. He’d lost his job? How? This seemed to have come from nowhere.
   ‘Maybe. I mean, I will, yes, but you know what the economy’s like right now, it’s going to take time. And we have two kids, a mortgage … How the hell are we going to manage?’
   ‘Well,’ Polly started.‘I know it’s not ideal but I did get that offer from DF Design. I know I turned it down, but—’
   ‘I thought you didn’t want the job?’ Matt looked surprised.
   ‘I wanted to work for them but the job was full time and I was hoping for part time so I could work around the kids. When I told them I couldn’t do it, not with the kids, they said to call them if I changed my mind. I didn’t want to work full time, but it’s on a contract basis so maybe, just until you sort yourself out, I could try it? It’s not as much money as you were earning but at least we’d have something coming in.’ She didn’t exactly look thrilled, but then this was a shock.
   ‘I can’t believe this has happened, no warning, the whole company gone under. None of us even saw it coming’. Matt clenched his fists. He was normally so laid back but he was definitely angry, and hurting, and I immediately felt upset for them both.
   ‘I know, love. I’m sorry. But if I can go and work for DF then at least that’ll be something.’
   ‘So I have to be a househusband?’ He sounded crosser than I’d ever heard him. I snuck under the table. I wanted to hear the end of this conversation but I also didn’t, if you know what I mean.
   ‘God, Matt, it’s not the 1950s! Men do look after their children and the house now. And you know full well that if we had a choice then no, you wouldn’t need to — I like being with the kids. At least we have an option — a lifesaver even,’ Polly snapped.
   ‘But I’ve always worked. I just don’t know if I know how not to work. What am I meant to do, make you a packed lunch and wave you off every day?’ Matt was shouting and Matt never shouted.
   ‘No, you make terrible sandwiches.’ She tried to laugh. ‘Look, Matt, we don’t have many options. I’ll take this job — it’s a rolling contract so it seems like the perfect solution until you find another role.’
   ‘Right, so I look after the kids and the home? Play house?’ Matt asked again. It seemed to be his sticking point.
   ‘They’re your kids and it’s your home so yes. It’s not the end of the world, Matt.’ Now Polly sounded angry. ‘Do you realise how patronising you sound? I’ve been doing this job for five years now and you seem to think it’s beneath you.’
   ‘Sorry, Pol, I don’t think that, it’s just that I’ve always worked.’ He kept repeating himself but I could tell he was still in shock.
   ‘I know.’ Her voice softened. ‘But now I have to. Listen, love, you’ll have plenty of time to look for a job and go to interviews when the kids are at school, and at least this way the bills will be paid. It won’t be so bad, you’ll see.’
   ‘I know, I’m sorry. It’s just that I’m still in shock.’ Ah, I was right. He put his head in his hands. Polly leaned over and put an arm around him.
   ‘I know, love, but thank goodness for DF Design. Someone is looking after us at least.’ Polly smiled sadly and I slunk off. I was looking after them too, although I couldn’t take credit for the job offer.
   Back at my house, I hit my head as I lunged at the cat flap. I was so preoccupied with Matt and Polly that I forgot about it being closed. I’d have a very sore head if I kept doing this. I jumped onto the kitchen windowsill and tried to tap the glass, miaowing very loudly. It wasn’t too long before Claire saw me. I jumped down and ran to the back door.
   ‘Oh, thank God,’ she said as she opened the door. I tilted my head.‘We’ve got a problem, Alfie. It’s George.’
   Summer came running towards me.‘Deorge, Deorge, Deorge,’ she kept shouting. I felt my heart beat faster, my fur standing on end. What had happened?
   ‘We can’t find him,’ said Claire.‘He can’t have gone out — he was here after you’d gone and I haven’t opened the door since, but I can’t find him anywhere.’
   I made my way into the house, my tail bushy with fear. Claire had opened all the cupboards and emptied them, covering the whole kitchen floor with their contents. I carefully manoeuvred my way through the mess and tried to stay calm. He had to be here somewhere, but I felt scared for the little baby. It was my fault. I shouldn’t have left him. He’d only just moved here. I should have gone out, done what I had to do and then come straight home. What kind of parent was I? I began to feel slightly hysterical as I hunted for him. I could smell his scent but it was everywhere he’d been. I checked the ground floor before climbing the stairs and trying not to panic.
   I miaowed loudly but heard nothing in reply. My heart pounded. I checked under Summer’s little bed, which was a cosy hiding place that would be perfect for a kitten, then I looked in all the other rooms, but I couldn’t find him anywhere.
   I lay on Claire and Jonathan’s bed to take a break and think of a plan. I’d been hunting for quite a while with absolutely no luck. I was fretting as to where the lad could be. I stretched out and sniffed at the bedding, wracking my brain as to what I could do next. Bingo! I figured it out in my very clever cat way. Claire had obviously just changed the linen on her bed. It was invitingly fresh — just the sort of thing that a little kitten would like. I realised what must have happened and hurried to the linen cupboard. I could hear a gentle snoring — well, more of a snuffle — coming from inside, but the door was closed.
   ‘MIAOW,’ I shouted with all my might, which brought Claire running towards me. Honestly, humans. It was lucky George had me, I thought, as I nudged at the door.
   ‘Thank goodness!’ Claire exclaimed as she opened the door.‘Ahh, look at him, he’s so cute.’
   ‘Oh, bless,’ I thought, as we both stared at George curled up on a pile of freshly laundered towels, fast asleep.
   ‘I used to watch Summer sleeping for hours,’ Claire said, and as we both stood and stared, I knew exactly what she meant.
   ‘So what happened?’ I asked George as we sat side by side on Claire and Jonathan’s bed later that evening.
   ‘It smelled so good in there that I decided to lie down. Then it was so comfortable that I fell asleep and Claire must have closed the door,’ he said. It sounded simple. I’d been shut in cupboards before — it was easily done. I knew it wasn’t his fault, but I had learnt a lesson from my mistake and George needed to as well.
   ‘OK, I understand. But they were worried about you and so was I. You shouldn’t go into any open cupboards, you risk getting shut in and, well, you were lucky that I could smell you. Claire was too busy emptying all the kitchen cupboards to think of looking for you up here. You could have been in there for hours, days even, if I hadn’t found you.’
   ‘Days?’ His beautiful eyes were as wide as saucers.
   ‘Living with humans isn’t always easy, George. But don’t worry, I’m here to teach you.’
   ‘Thanks, Alfie — Dad.’ When he said that my heart melted.
   Summer bounded into the room and dived onto the bed. She scooped George up and ran downstairs, babbling about a new game she wanted to play.
   I smiled as I watched them go. Summer was like a human sister to me, and now that George was my kitten I had two little ones to take care of. I was overwhelmed with a need for them both to be happy, but right now I was glad that Summer was there to play with George. Apart from all the human business, running around and having to take care of little ones, plus the cats on the lamppost mystery, I also needed a bit of time to myself to think of Snowball, who I still missed with all my heart. Or the bit of it that George hadn’t stolen anyway.
   Chapter Eleven [Ea?oeiea: i_011.jpg]
   George had officially been with us for just over a week, and what an exhausting week it had been. I was suffering from sleep deprivation— George still woke most nights — and constant worry. Looking after him had taken its toll on me. This parenting lark wasn’t as easy as I had always assumed. I know humans moan about how hard it is, but I had just assumed that was because they weren’t cats. It seems I was wrong.
   The whole house was besotted with George, myself included. Us grown-ups would marvel at the way he would lie on his back and play with his paws, like Summer used to do when she was a baby. It made us all smile. Or the way he would nestle into Jonathan’s neck while he watched TV, his gentle purring making his fur tremble slightly. Or when he lay on the sofa, asleep on his back, and Claire stroked him — he would put his paws over his head, stretching out to be stroked even more. It was the sweetest thing ever.
   After the linen cupboard incident I barely let him out of my sight. I needed to teach him how to fend for himself, which he definitely needed. Despite my lesson on the importance of staying out of cupboards, I had to drag him out of a kitchen cupboard the following day. He said he wanted to explore, which I understood, but I seemed to be constantly warning him of the dangers. And suddenly dangers were everywhere. I wasn’t sure if I could kitten-proof the house, let alone the world — an even more terrifying thought.
   He had also been pinching my food; I caught him with his nose in my tuna, and, well, let’s just say I’m not used to sharing. But I couldn’t bring myself to get angry with him, not when he looked at me with those cute eyes, that smile and his little whiskers. I was putty in his paws. I found telling him off difficult already, but I knew I had to, because that was a part of parenting.
   I was proud of him at the same time; he was doing so well using the litter tray, there had only been one terrible incident when he had done his business in Jonathan’s slipper. Jonathan acted as if someone had committed murder — they were Italian leather slippers, apparently — and Claire had to pacify him for ages. When we were alone, I explained to George that Jonathan had always been a bit hot-headed and his bark was worse than his bite — excuse the dog reference, which was another thing I had to teach George all about. Although he still couldn’t go out, I needed to prepare him for when he did. We spent our evenings before bedtime having lessons about life. I was taking my parental responsibilities very seriously. George had a lot to learn and teaching him was really taking my mind off Snowball. By the end of the day I was often so tired that, once I had settled George into bed for the night, I fell straight into a deep, dreamless sleep myself.
   After me sleeping in his bed the first night, we both now slept in mine, which was a bit bigger and more comfortable for the two of us. Claire thought it was adorable and took photos to put on something called Facebook. As George nestled into me, the warmth of him was undoubtedly comforting. It reminded me of when I used to sleep next to Agnes, back in another of my nine lives. I was still unsure that Claire had been sane, getting George and thrusting me into the role of parent, but on the plus side I had no time to indulge in my heartbreak anymore.
   I’d hardly been out, but I had managed to snatch some time with Tiger, who was keeping me abreast of any cat news in the neighbourhood. We were still no clearer on the cat pictures, but apparently she had seen another one on the way to the park the other day. It was getting more and more mysterious.
   I missed seeing my other friends and planned on spending some time with them the following day. As Summer and Claire would be at home, I was hoping it would be OK to leave George for a little while. I also hadn’t been to Polly and Matt’s, although I had seen Polly and the kids at our house — Martha was just as obsessed with George as Summer was. Henry wasn’t as interested, so he and I watched TV together while they played, treating George like one of their cuddly toys. George loved it — he didn’t mind even being manhandled. I hadn’t seen Matt, who was busy job hunting, though I worried about him, of course. Polly seemed OK, albeit not quite her usual self, but I was trying to keep that worry on the back burner for now.
   Early evening, I was in the garden. Claire had left the cat flap open for me as she was taking George into the bathroom with her while she bathed Summer. I remember when Summer first arrived, Claire had moaned to Jonathan that she didn’t have any time to herself — even going to the loo and showering had become a luxury. I had thought she was exaggerating. Well, guess what, she wasn’t — as I was quickly finding out. So I decided to make the most of this rare time alone. The cool breeze of the summer evening felt wonderfulon my fur and I enjoyed it thoroughly before reluctantly returning inside. I wanted to make sure George ate a good tea and cleaned himself before bedtime … I realised there was so much to do as I ran upstairs, just in time to hear a disturbing noise.
   ‘YOWL!’ I heard his little voice cry out.
   ‘Deorge, Deorge,’ Summer cried. I panicked and ran to the bathroom door, bashing against it until Claire finally opened it.
   George was sitting on the bath mat, dripping wet, and Summer was standing up in the bath. Claire was trying not to laugh. I allowed myself to breathe again.
   ‘Oh, Alfie, George fell into the toilet. I didn’t realise he could jump up that high but he must have climbed up onto the loo seat while I was washing Summer and then fallen in,’ she explained.
   Of course he could jump up, I thought, he was a clever kitten.
   ‘Right, now, Sum, I’ll get you out of the bath and then pop George in, we don’t want him smelling of toilet cleaner.’ As Claire wrapped Summer in a towel and gently bathed George, he looked far from happy. I gave him a knowing look; tonight our lesson would be about water.
   By the time George had recovered and dried off, it was teatime. Jonathan had come home from work and was soon laughing at George’s antics, which was lovely to hear — he hadn’t been laughing much lately, although I hadn’t had a chance to get to the bottom of that yet. Claire told him that they had to make sure the loo lids were always down now, which was a relief; there were so many hazards to think about when you had a kitten. Anyway, Jonathan was smiling as he changed his clothes; he was going to Matt’s house for a boys’ night while Polly was coming here. Franceska was joining us too, so I was excited. Normally I would move between the two houses for boys’ night and girls’ night, but as George needed me I would be with the ladies tonight. Hopefully I’d pick up some new information about everything that was going on around here.
   ‘Don’t want go bed!’ Summer shouted as Jonathan tried to coax her upstairs.
   ‘If you come to bed now I’ll read whatever story you want, but if not then no story,’ he said. I watched her face as she weighed up the situation. Summer didn’t like to concede anything, so it was hard to tell which way it would go.
   ’K,’ she said in the end.‘But only if Deorge comes.’ I felt a little stab of jealousy at all the attention George was getting, but I adored him too much to really mind. I had had a lot of attention in my day after all. Perhaps it was time to step aside for the lad.
   ‘Magic touch,’ said Jonathan as he picked George up.‘But, Claire, couldn’t you have named the kitten something Sum could actually say,’ he said, laughing as Summer kept saying ‘Deorge’ over and over.
   ‘Right, George,’ I said later, when the living room was empty, with Summer asleep upstairs and Jonathan gone. ‘Are you ready to go to bed yet?’
   ‘No. I want to see the others.’
   ‘OK, you can stay up a bit later tonight, but you must tell me when you’re tired. And we need to talk about water. And the hazards of the toilet.’
   ‘I didn’t like it much,’ George admitted.
   ‘No, us cats should avoid water if we can, apart from drinking it of course.’ I went on to tell him about my past experiences. I had once nearly drowned, after all, and I didn’t want George to be in any danger. They say cats have nine lives, and I reckon I’ve used up about three or four of mine, but I didn’t want to take any more chances and I didn’t want my little boy to either.
   The doorbell interrupted our discussion and I ran to the door with George on my heels. As Claire opened it, and Polly and Franceska came in, with wine and hugs, I felt happy. We followed them into the kitchen where Claire poured wine and I drank some water before settling on Franceska’s lap. Polly scooped up George and he purred as she cuddled him.
   ‘So, I have big news,’ Polly announced.
   ‘Not another baby?’ Franceska asked. I shot a worried look at Claire but she didn’t appear upset.
   ‘No, don’t be daft. It’s more complicated — Matt lost his job.’
   ‘Oh no, Pol, I am so sorry,’ Claire said.
   ‘Now I feel the stupid,’ Franceska said. Her English was brilliant but when she got upset or stressed her accent became stronger and she sometimes put words in the wrong places.
   ‘No, honestly, I’m used to the idea now. ’
   ‘But I’ve seen you loads lately and you didn’t say anything.’ Claire sounded worried.
   ‘I think I wanted us both to get our heads around it a bit before we told anyone. He’s talking to Jon about it tonight. But anyway, he went to work and they simply told everyone it was closing down — the company’s gone bust. They’re sorting out packages now but Matt says he’ll be lucky to get a couple of months’ pay. But the thing is, just before we found out, DF Design offered me a job.’
   ‘Wow, Polly, that’s great.’ Claire smiled at her.
   ‘Yes, well, I turned it down at first because I didn’t want to work full time because of the kids, but things have obviously changed. It’s a rolling six-month contract, and it doesn’t pay as much as Matt earned, but we can manage, at least until Matt gets another job.’
   ‘It all sounds complicated,’ Franceska said.‘But you OK?’
   ‘Yes, the main thing is that we’ll be fine — financially anyway. But the thing is, Matt and I are arguing because he’s miserable about not working. He says he doesn’t want to be a househusband but I don’t even know if that’s the real issue.’
   ‘Oh God, Pol, it could be the role reversal … I shudder to think how Jonathan would cope with that. If I told him I was going to work and he was staying at home, he’d wonder what the hell he was supposed to do. He thinks Summer and the house get sorted by magic. Anyway, at least the kids are a bit bigger now.’
   ‘Yes, Henry’s at school and Martha will be soon,’ Franceska added.
   ‘I know, I know, but I’ll miss them, and the idea of working full time, well, let’s be honest — I was a model before so I’ve never actually had a nine to five. Now I will, five days a week, and Matt will be at home, making packed lunches and cleaning the house. Well, hopefully cleaning the house!’ They all laughed.
   ‘Is he taking it that badly?’ Claire asked.
   ‘I keep telling him that it’s only until he finds another job, which will hopefully be sooner than he thinks. Then goodness knows what I’ll do if he gets a job, but we’ll cross that bridge when we come to it.’ She sighed. ‘Right, enough about me, what’s going on with you two?’
   ‘Well, we’re well underway with the adoption process,’ Claire told them.
   ‘Claire, that is the biggest news! Why you haven’t told us?’ Franceska asked, giving her a hug and nearly sending me flying off her lap.
   ‘I was waiting for tonight. It’s a long process, and Jonathan still isn’t exactly keen … I’ll keep you posted but having George has made me want a sibling for Summer even more. She thinks that Alfie and George are her brothers and she talks about them at nursery as if they’re human!’
   ‘That’s so cute, although perhaps a bit worrying when they find out she’s talking about cats,’ Polly pointed out.
   Franceska then told the other two that they were now ready to open a second restaurant. Tomasz had a partner, a friend from Poland who had moved here a while ago, and they were expanding the business together. The restaurant was really popular so it made sense, although I worried that big Tomasz worked too hard already. I didn’t want him to be too busy for his family.
   ‘I’m worried that we’ll see less of him, but he assures me that he’s going to put managers in so he can concentrate on the food side and not have to be there quite so often. Well, we are hoping,’ Franceska said. I knew that Tomasz found it hard to let go and delegate to others — his wife had worried about that since he had opened his first restaurant.
   I looked at George, who was fast asleep on Polly’s lap, then at my three human women. They were all so strong and had come a long way since I had first met them. Claire with her broken heart, Polly with her postnatal depression after giving birth to Henry, and Franceska struggling to settle into a foreign country. But I knew that it wasn’t plain sailing and once again it felt as if issues were mounting up for each of them. Changes were happening and change always threatened to cause problems, I knew that. I just hoped we would all be able to keep it together, and that my families would weather the storm I had a horrible feeling might be brewing.
   Chapter Twelve
   [Ea?oeiea: i_012.jpg]
   The first storm came not from my main families but from someone else I was very close to. Though all my families were a bit rocky, there was nothing that was an immediate concern to me. After the girls’ night, Claire and Jonathan had had a bit of a row, but that wasn’t anything new. When Jonathan went over to his house, Matt had been upset about his job loss, understandably, but Claire commented on how lucky they were that Polly had been offered something. Jonathan said she didn’t understand how unsettling it would be for Matt to have to slip into a housewife role and then Claire accused him of being sexist, which Jonathan quite happily admitted he was … It was just one of their usual annoying bickers. But it unsettled little George, who still had a long way to go before he understood.
   ‘I don’t understand why they shout,’ he said, his voice quivering.
   ‘Humans do that sometimes. It’s very complicated and it doesn’t mean they don’t love each other.’
   ‘But why?’
   ‘Well, sometimes people — and cats, for that matter — don’t agree.’
   ‘But why?’ he asked. And on and on he went, until I had to cover my ears with my paws, because I couldn’t hear ‘why’ one more time. Again, I knew how the human parents felt; Martha was going through a ‘why’ phase right now and Polly said it made her want to tear her hair out. Parenting this kitten was almost harder than taking care of my grown-up humans. But of course this cat had to do it all.
   The next day, Claire and Jonathan had made up and were doing that yucky thing they do when they keep kissing and being soppy. Poor George looked at me, eyes full of confusion, and I wondered how on earth I was supposed to teach him about life when it made so little sense sometimes.
   ‘Yuck,’ Summer proclaimed, watching her dad kiss her mum as they made breakfast. ‘Yuck, yuck, yuck.’ Claire and Jonathan laughed but I had to agree with her — it was pretty embarrassing to see them put on such a public display!
   George was stationed underneath Summer’s high chair, where he was enjoying licking off the yoghurt she kept dropping onto him. It was his new favourite thing to do. I was eating my breakfast, having ensured George had eaten enough of his by telling him he wouldn’t grow up as strong as me unless he did. I had heard many a human parent saying this so I knew it was true. But we were having lovely family time together and it made my heart swell with love, a feeling that had been lacking since the loss of Snowball. Don’t get me wrong, I still missed her when I had time, but I was also happily counting my blessings too.
   The doorbell dinged, interrupted our lazy Saturday morning. Jonathan and Claire looked at each other, and Claire went to open the door. I gave George the‘stay there’ look I had mastered and followed her.
   ‘Oh God.’ Claire and I stood back as she opened the door. Tasha, her best friend and one of mine too, stood on the doorstep, holding her son, Elijah, who was only a bit older than Summer. She was crying with such force, it suggested she might fall over.
   ‘Tash, come in,’ Claire said. She grabbed Elijah, almost dropping him; he was only a few months older than Summer but he was about two children heavier. She shouted for Jonathan, who came running, thrust Elijah at him and told him to take him into the kitchen with Summer. Jonathan looked shocked but didn’t argue as Claire led Tash into the living room with me at their heels, where Tash immediately collapsed onto the sofa.
   ‘Tash, darling, what on earth is it?’ Claire wrapped her arms around her friend as she sobbed. Not quite knowing what to do, I curled up next to her. At least she would know I was there for her.
   Tasha and I had met when I started living with Claire on Edgar Road, a long time ago. I had loved her straight away. She was a good friend to Claire and had seen us both through some tough times. Claire and Tasha used to work together and had quickly become best friends. Now, with the children so close in age, they spent loads of time together and she remained one of my favourite humans. I didn’t go to her house, as it was too far away, but she was nevertheless part of my family.
   ‘It’s Dave, he’s gone!’
   Dave was her partner. They had never married, and although he seemed an all right kind of bloke, he was allergic to cats, so we always had a bit of an issue between us. He used to take pills when he was around me but he still never touched me, so our relationship was far from close.
   ‘Gone? Gone where?’
   ‘He’s, he’s …’ She hiccupped.‘He’s left us. Moved out.’
   ‘What? Tash! What on earth?’ Claire took hold of her friend’s hands, looking as shocked as I felt. I might not have been Dave’s biggest fan but I thought they were solid in their relationship. Immediately, I felt a kinship with Tash — we both were suffering heartbreak, after all.
   ‘He said last night he couldn’t do this, this relationship with me. He said he loved Elijah but this wasn’t how he thought family life would be and he wasn’t cut out for it. I tried to ask him for reasons, he just kept saying that he didn’t love me anymore. I tried to talk him out of it, but he, he didn’t change his mind. I cried, I begged, I didn’t sleep all night and this morning he packed a few bags and went. What am I going to do?’
   ‘Oh, Tash, I can’t believe it.’ As Tash sobbed in Claire’s arms I came to the sad realisation that I had been right all along not to trust a man who was allergic to cats.
   Claire was good in a crisis, a bit like myself. She mobilised the troops. She told Jonathan to look after the children while she took Tash into a different room. She ordered Jonathan to call Dave and try to get to the bottom of it, then she said that Tash and Elijah had to move in with us for now. She drove Tash home to get some of their belongings so they could stay for a few days at least. Basically she did exactly what I would have done, if I were a human. I had taught her well.
   I felt sad for my lovely friend. Why did humans continue to hurt each other? It was something I didn’t understand. I knew how Tash felt, a little bit, having lost Snowball. But at least Snowball hadn’t abandoned me — she didn’t have a choice but to leave.
   I knew I needed to be there for Tasha; I had to help her heal and let her know I understood how she felt. As I pondered how I would do that I heard George miaowing urgently from the kitchen. I had only taken my eyes off him for a second but I ran in to find him standing in my food bowl. In the crisis, Claire and Jonathan had obviously forgotten to put our food away as they usually did.
   ‘What are you doing?’ I asked, exasperated. He had flakes of tuna on his head.
   ‘I wanted to try your food, then I thought how much bigger your bowl was than mine, so I thought I’d see if it was bigger than me. I got in but I can’t get out again.’
   ‘George, if the humans find you they’ll be cross,’ I admonished as I helped him get out.‘Quick, clean yourself up before they get back.’ I supervised his clean-up and tried not to be annoyed that he had used up the rest of my breakfast with his experiment. After all, I had more important things than food on my mind right now.
   ‘Yum, I liked that,’ George said, licking his lips when he was clean again.
   ‘But that was my breakfast. You have special food because you’re little. Like Summer,’ I explained.
   ‘I’m going to get big now so I can eat like you,’ George declared before scampering off. I checked that there was definitely no food left — there wasn’t, George had either eaten what I had left or worn it — before chasing after him.
   I found him running round in circles.
   ‘What are you doing?’ I asked, mildly amused.
   ‘I’m trying to catch my tail but it keeps running away from me.’
   Oh, how I laughed as he determinedly ran round in circles. I didn’t have the heart to tell him he’d never catch it. In the midst of all the doom my kitten was cheering me up. He had this magical power and I wondered now if it was time for me to pass the baton. Should I train George up to help people the way I always did? It seemed like a good idea, and perhaps George could help me help Tash. I was already teaching George what I knew, so when it came to my families, and being a doorstep cat, George would be my apprentice. I grinned — what a nice thought that was.
   I looked around the living room. Tash was lying on the sofa, cuddling Elijah, who was asleep. George was curled up at her feet, which was sweet. I had asked him to spend time with Tasha and, actually, when he did the chasing-his-tail thing she had laughed for the first time, so it had worked. My gorgeous kitten was a tonic for us all, it seemed.
   Summer was napping in her bedroom, so I joined Claire and Jonathan in the kitchen, where they were talking quietly.
   ‘So he’s not going to change his mind?’ Claire asked.
   ‘No, the idiot’s met someone else. I suspected it already, so I tripped him up and he admitted it. Typical story, she’s younger, no kids and he probably thinks she’ll never make the demands of him that Tash does. Anyway, he was too cowardly to tell Tash. I’m afraid he’s moved on. He’seven talking about selling their place and splitting the money. It’s only been five minutes!’ Jonathan looked incredulous — angry and red faced. What made me most proud of Jonathan was how honourable he was as a person. He would never do that to Claire; I would put all the pilchards in the world on it.
   ‘Oh God, what are we going to tell Tash?’ Claire asked.
   Jonathan shook his head.‘He really doesn’t care that she’s in pieces. He just seems to ignore that he’s hurt her, and when I tried to talk about Elijah he said that plenty of kids grow up with parents who aren’t together. He doesn’t seem to think he’s done anything wrong. I wanted to punch him — it was lucky he was on the other end of the phone.’
   Jonathan and Dave had never really been friends. They spent time together because of Tash and Claire but I heard Jonathan say he thought he was missing a few brain cells, and apparently he had committed an even worse crime than being allergic to cats: he supported Arsenal. Jonathan could never forgive that but I didn’t really understand why.
   ‘So what do we do?’ Claire was distraught. Jonathan held her.
   ‘Well, she can stay here as long as she needs to. I’ll tell Dave to get the rest of this stuff out of the house. And I know she might not be ready, but I’m going to get her a solicitor for when she is. He’s not going to do the right thing, so I’m going to take him on.’ Jonathan sounded pretty certain.
   ‘Oh, Jon, thanks, we have to help her. I can’t imagine how it must feel …’
   ‘Hey, you know I’d never leave you and Sum, don’t you?’ He looked at her as he spoke and, as I said before, I knew with certainty in my heart that, no matter what, he wouldn’t leave them. He was nothing like Dave.
   ‘I do, and I love you. But for now we need to get Tasha back in one piece. She did the same for me when I first moved here, and I didn’t have a child to think about like she does.’
   ‘Hey, baby, we’ll do whatever it takes to sort her out. Don’t worry.’
   I nuzzled against both their legs. I was going to help too, of course.
   ‘Oh, Alfie, I forgot how much you love Tash too. Well, between us all we’ll get her back on her feet,’ Claire declared, sounding determined.
   Satisfied, I miaowed and then went to the back door.
   ‘OK, Alfie, you can go out, but come to the windowsill when you want to come in,’ Claire said.
   ‘Miaow,’ I agreed.
   I found Tiger under a bush in her front garden.
   ‘Hi, Tiger, what’s going on?’ I asked. It had been a couple of days since I’d last seen her, and I realised that I’d missed her. I was so used to seeing Tiger almost every day, I wondered if I took her for granted a bit.
   ‘Well, hello, stranger. I’d almost forgotten what you looked like.’
   ‘This not going out lark isn’t easy. Nor is having a kitten to take care of. I can’t wait for you to meet him though, he’s so cute.’
   ‘Oh, Alfie, you keep saying that, you proud father. Stroll?’
   ‘Yes, I’d love to. I haven’t had nearly enough exercise lately.’ We rubbed noses and set off. We hadn’t gone far when a big cat shadow loomed over us.
   ‘Great,’ I said.‘First time out in ages and we have to bump intohim.’
   ‘Well, fancy seeing you two here,’ Salmon said, baring his teeth at us.
   ‘We do live here,’ Tiger replied, flicking her tail angrily.
   ‘Well, I’m patrolling to check everything is OK. Can’t be too careful you know.’
   ‘Right, Salmon, and what trouble have you happened upon?’ I said, humouring him. Salmon’s owners ran the local Neighbourhood Watch; they were real busybodies and Salmon was cut from the same cloth.
   ‘Well, like my owners have noted, number twenty have put so much rubbish in their garden that they’re attracting vermin. They’re holding a meeting about it, you know.’
   ‘Great, and what about the cat pictures, do you know anything about that yet?’
   ‘I do,’ Salmon replied. ‘But unfortunately it’s classified information.’
   ‘What? What on earth does that mean?’ Tiger asked.
   ‘I am not at liberty to discuss it with you.’
   ‘Which, once again, means you don’t know anything,’ I retorted.
   ‘I see your girlfriend left you,’ he said, unkindly.
   ‘She didn’t leave him, she moved away,’ Tiger hissed. She glared at Salmon in her most aggressive way. Tiger was my best friend and also my self-appointed bodyguard.
   ‘Yes, well, same difference,’ said Salmon, hissing back at us before walking off.
   ‘That cat does not get any nicer,’ I said, fuming.
   ‘But he’s not important. Look at him, he has no friends, and you have loads. Speaking of which, let’s go and find them.’
   We made our way to a strip of grass surrounded by bushes at the end of Edgar Road, where our little cat community would sometimes converge. I was lucky: Elvis, Nellie and Rocky, three of my favourite cats, were hanging out there when we arrived. They all stood up to greet us.
   ‘Alfie, it’s been ages,’ Nellie said, yawning and raising her whiskers.‘Is there any news?’ Nellie loved drama.
   ‘I’m sure Tiger told you, I’ve been preoccupied with a kitten.’
   ‘I know, fancy you having a real kitten and not a human to worry about,’ said Rocky. He was an older cat, well-meaning but sometimes a tad interfering.
   ‘Oh, I still have plenty of humans to worry about, but the kitten can’t go out yet so I’m restricted as to what I can do at the moment,’ I explained.
   ‘How are you, Alfie?’ Elvis asked kindly. ‘You know, after Snowball leaving?’
   ‘I miss her, of course I do. You don’t just get over someone that quickly.’ I felt emotional as I thought of her beautiful white fur and blue eyes.‘But George, my kitten, he’s keeping me busy.’ I smiled sadly, tilting my head to one side.
   ‘Well, we’re all looking forward to meeting him when he’s allowed out,’ Nellie said. ‘But try to come here more often, now the weather’s nice. There are some new neighbourhood cats you should meet.’
   ‘Really?’ I hadn’t even noticed any new families. I had obviously been neglecting my doorstep cat duties with everything going on.
   ‘Oh, not new families, just new cats. Two, actually, and nice they are, as well. One is so pretty we think she’ll probably get a picture up there soon,’ Elvis said.
   ‘Elvis, do you really believe there’s some kind of cat beauty competition going on?’ I asked.
   ‘Can’t see why not,’ he replied.‘And as I said, I’m guessing at least one of the new cats will be entered soon.’ He sounded sure but it made no sense to me.
   ‘Have you met them?’ I asked Tiger.
   ‘Yes,’ she answered shortly, slowly blinking her eyes to indicate the subject was closed.‘Right, I want to sunbathe while it’s still hot.’ She found the best spot and lay down. I had time to stay for a little while, so I settled down, stretching out next to her, and enjoyed the feeling ofthe sun warming my fur. I thought about the new cats and how Tiger had been so keen to change the subject. She could be a funny one, I thought, but it would be nice to meet new cats, it was something else to look forward to. After all, I always say, you could never have too many friends.
   As I left the others and walked back on my own, I saw some of the posters. I had seen four in total now. I looked at the pictures of the cats and had to admit that, yes, they were all nice looking cats. But still I was annoyed with myself— I knew somewhere deep down that I had the answer. As I reached the front door, I experienced a sudden flashback. My memory suddenly fell into place. When my families had thought I was missing, they’d put a picture of me on the lampposts (I wasn’t missing at all, I was ill at the vet, but that’s another story). Yes, I had figured it out. These cats were missing for some reason and their owners were trying to find out if anyone had seen them. Of course, it all made sense now. I remembered Aleksy showing me the picture he drew of me and telling me how he had put that up. That was what the lamppost cats were — missing cats! I would have to tell the other cats my discovery, but first I had to go and check on George.
   Chapter Thirteen
   [Ea?oeiea: i_013.jpg]
   ‘Where’s George?’ Claire asked me. I looked at her and blinked. I had just been out into the garden for a few minutes to attend to my needs. How could they have lost him in that short time? I went off to find him. It didn’t take me long — he was under Summer’s bed.
   ‘George,’ I said,‘come out.’
   ‘No.’
   ‘George, I am not going to tell you again. Either you come out or I come to you,’ I warned.
   ‘No,’ George repeated. I wondered if he’d been taking lessons from Summer when my back was turned. I crawled under the small toddler bed and saw he was tied up in what look like a ball of wool.
   ‘George, what have you done?’ I asked, eyes widening. ‘Nothing,’ he replied, trying to back away and bumping into a wall.
   ‘Well, what’s this wool all over you?’ He tried to wriggle away from me but his legs were all tangled up with wool. I had to push him with my paw to get him out from under the bed. When I examined him, I saw that he had what remained of Jonathan’s scarf trailing behind him and the rest of it wrapped around him. He looked like a cat’s cradle. Ah, was that why it was called that?
   ‘What have you done?’ I asked in my sternest voice.
   ‘I was just playing with this thing.’ He gave me his most innocent look.
   ‘The scarf.’
   ‘Yes, if that’s what it’s called. I was playing with the scarf and suddenly it started to unravel and somehow it unravelled all around me and I couldn’t get it off. I was in Summer’s room anyway so I hid.’ He spoke as if it was the most normal thing in the world.
   ‘That’s Jonathan’s scarf,’ I said, wondering how much trouble we’d be in. Claire had taken up knitting when she was pregnant and had decided to practise by making Jonathan a scarf. It was the first and last thing she’d knitted but she was proud of it and insisted that Jonathan wear it all winter. Goodness knows how George had got hold of it.
   I tried to get it off him but he was more tangled than he looked, and I seemed to be making things worse. Reluctantly, I went to get Claire. She was in the kitchen preparing supper for later. Summer was at nursery, as was Elijah, and Tash was at work. I rubbed against her leg.
   ‘Hi, Alfie. Did you find George?’
   ‘Miaow.’ Yes. I nudged her leg with my head.
   ‘What? What’s wrong?’
   ‘Miaow.’ I repeated and led the way upstairs.
   ‘Oh, George!’ Claire said as she saw the tangled mess that was George and the scarf. She tutted and started trying to free him, but he was properly tangled.‘Oh goodness, I’ll have to get scissors.’ She returned with Summer’s nail scissors and started carefully cutting. I saw George close his eyes and knew how he felt. I hoped he wasn’t going to get a fur-cut at the same time. When he was eventually free, George sprang away quicker than I’d ever seen him move. I guessed he didn’t want another telling off.
   ‘Well, I don’t know what Jonathan will say, that was his favourite scarf,’ Claire said as we left the room.
   That evening, after dinner, Claire took Tash out for a drink. She thought a change of scene might do her some good. I thought it meant that at least she wouldn’t be crying. Poor Tash, she held it together when Elijah was awake but as soon as he was asleep she would crumble. I spent as much time with her as I could spare, but nothing I did seemed to make her feel better, not even one of my special snuggles. I knew she must feel like I did when Snowball left, so I understood her pain, and I knew that nothing would really help apart from time. Although she had her kitten, Elijah, and he would help, as George helped me.
   I sat with Jonathan on the sofa. George was asleep, curled up on an armchair. It was nice to spend some quiet time together, just the two of us; we hadn’t done that for a while.
   ‘Oh, Alfie,’ he said as he put his feet on the coffee table, switched the TV on and sipped a beer.‘Boy time. I have to say I was over the moon that George ruined my scarf. I hated that thing, I only wore it because Claire insisted, but it was really itchy and far too long. And thankfully she’s given up knitting so I know she won’t replace it. I might get a lovely cashmere one instead. I should buy that kitten some pilchards to thank him.’
   ‘Miaow!’ But what about me?
   ‘And you, of course. Right, well let’s enjoy some peace and quiet from the madness that is this place at the moment.’ I nodded and yawned. It was lovely to relax; it was something that had become very rare in our house.
   I was woken a little later by the sound of the door opening. I could hear someone giggling and a loud‘shush’.
   ‘Oh God, they’re drunk,’ Jonathan said, bracing himself. Tash and Claire stumbled into the living room. Claire hugged Jonathan, almost falling on him and then me.
   Tash fell down on the chair, almost sitting on George who shot up in surprise and then settled back down next to her. As Tash stroked him, George purred with joy.
   ‘We have a plan,’ Claire announced. Now I was sure she had too much to drink, as she was speaking very loudly.
   ‘Yes, we do,’ Tash slurred.
   ‘And are you going to share this plan?’ Jonathan looked amused.
   ‘Yes, Tash is going to see the solicitor you found, I’m making an appointment tomorrow.’ Jonathan had found a good recommendation from someone he worked with. ‘She’s then going to sell the house and move onto Edgar Road. Genius!’
   ‘Yes, it’s time for me to pull myself together,’ said Tash. Then she burst out laughing. I never understood humans and alcohol. I mean, I like a bit of catnip as much as the next cat but we never let it get this out of control.
   ‘OK, but is there a house available on this road?’ Jonathan asked.
   ‘No idea,’ said Claire.‘But it’s a big road.’
   I was excited by the idea; it would be nice to have Tash nearby and I’d have another home on Edgar Road, a bit like the old days.
   ‘Well, that sounds good. Look, Tasha, are you sure?’ Jonathan asked, gently.‘It’s still early days.’
   ‘Yes, I am. Dave isn’t coming back.’ She suddenly burst into tears, showing the sudden swing in emotions I had learnt was quite common with humans. Then George licked her face and she laughed as if to prove my point. ‘Oh, George. I love this kitten. And you, Alfie,’ she said, almost as anafterthought. But that was all right. I was used to George working his magic on everyone, and I was now sort of in second place. I had thought it would bother me, but actually, I was really happy, because I was under George’s spell too.
   ‘Right, well that’s all good then, and of course I’ll help out with whatever you need,’ Jonathan said.‘But for now, you both need to drink a big glass of water and get to bed.’
   I led George up to bed and left Jonathan to organise the women. I was pleased that Tash was looking towards the future, despite her tears. And I felt the same for me. I was taking little steps. I would never forget Snowball, but life did go on. When I was hurt, I wanted time to stand still, but it didn’t: life didn’t do that.
   However, I wished I could see Dave and rub my fur all over him. That would serve him right for hurting one of the loveliest women I knew.
   Chapter Fourteen
   [Ea?oeiea: i_014.jpg]
   Today was a big day for us. Claire was taking George to the vet to get his vaccinations, which meant he would finally be allowed outside. Although I have a severe vet phobia, I wanted to go with him but annoyingly I wasn’t invited. I had been very careful not to share with George my aversion to the vet. Vets meant well but they prodded in places they frankly had no business to. I told him he’d be fine though, and got him excited about seeing the outside world. I was keen to take my boy out: I couldn’t wait to show him off to my friends and take him round the neighbourhood.
   The good news was that as long as they were at the vet’s, the cat flap would be open. It was also very important that I tell my cat friends what I had figured out about the lamppost cats. It was a worrying turn of events, and I knew the posters were still on everyone’s mind. I was also hoping I might get to meet the new Edgar Road cats. Since becoming a parent I had barely had any time for myself, and I was now realising how precious that was. Just being able to do what I wanted to do, something I had previously taken for granted, was now a luxury. I was so busy looking after George that I wasn’t looking after myself, and it was a while since I’d been my usual cat-about-town self.
   I called for Tiger, who came out when I bashed her cat flap, our way of ringing the doorbell. She was just finishing cleaning her whiskers.
   ‘Did I interrupt your lunch?’ I asked.
   ‘No, I was only having a snack,’ she replied. Tiger liked her food, though since we’d been friends, I had made her take more exercise, and she was far less lazy now than she used to be.
   ‘I need to talk to you about the lamppost cats, but I think we should go and see the others so I can talk to you all,’ I said.
   ‘Really? You know something?’ Tiger was interested.
   ‘Yes, I’ve figured it out — there’s lots to fill you in on.’
   I started strolling with Tiger by my side. From a distance, I saw Elvis and Rocky, and with them was one of the new cats. I was excited— Tiger was right, it was the curiosity I always felt for new people and new cats that I loved. I smoothed my fur down and approached. I couldn’t help but notice instantly that the new cat was beautiful. My heart may have belonged to Snowball but my eyes were still working! I saw Tiger glance at me sideways and I thought maybe she was jealous; she could be a bit possessive of me, although I didn’t think she thought of me inthat way anymore. Did she? I tried to give her a reassuring look. I mean, I couldn’t even think about another woman right now, and probably not for a very long time. Maybe not ever.
   ‘Alfie, Tiger, glad you came. This is the one of the new cats I was telling you about, Pinkie,’ said Rocky.
   ‘Nice to meet you, Pinkie,’ I purred. She was a similar colour to me, but with a very cute round face and a bright pink collar.
   ‘You too, Alfie,’ she grinned. She was quite stunning.‘And Tiger, nice to see you again.’ What lovely manners, I thought. Tiger made a sound but didn’t say anything.
   ‘You’re new to the area?’ I asked.
   ‘Yes, my family moved to somewhere called “overseas”, and they couldn’t take me with them so they found me a new home.’
   ‘That’s rough,’ I said. ‘Although I know all about that, having suffered something similar.’
   ‘Yes, Elvis told me a bit about your background. But the lady I live with now is very nice, and she has great taste in food.’
   ‘Anyway,’ Tiger interrupted. ‘We have more important things to discuss than food. Go on, Alfie, tell them what you know about the cat pictures.’
   ‘Ohh, you know something?’ asked Nellie, moving closer. I raised my whiskers as all the cats surrounded me.
   ‘Yes, I do. The lamppost photos aren’t a beauty contest. It means that they are missing.’
   ‘Missing?’ Rocky asked. He looked shocked.
   ‘Yes, the owners have put up pictures asking if anyone has seen their cats. Which means they aren’t at home.’ I felt quite knowledgeable as the others hung on my every word.‘It happened to me once, when Jonathan and the others thought I was missing. But it was all a misunderstanding, as youknow, because I was with the vet. So we need to try to figure out if these cats are really missing or if they’ve left their homes of their own accord.’
   ‘You mean like they just got fed up and ran away?’ Nellie asked.
   ‘Found new owners, maybe?’ Pinkie suggested.
   ‘But there does seem to be quite a lot of them,’ Rocky pointed out.
   ‘You’re all right. This may be a case of missing cats, but we need to figure out why. After all, they could just have found nicer homes. It does happen.’ I was loyal to my families but they were good to me — not all humans were.
   ‘So we need to be vigilant?’ asked Elvis.
   ‘Yes,’ Tiger replied. ‘We don’t think there is anything to worry about but we do need to keep our eyes on the situation and we should discuss it at various intervals. It’s only right.’
   ‘Tiger’s right,’ I concurred.
   ‘Guess where I met Pinkie, Alfie?’ Elvis said, changing the subject and sounding proud. His attention span really was very short. I wondered if they were an item, but I didn’t think so as Pinkie seemed far too young and pretty for him.
   ‘Where?’ I asked. I saw that Tiger was chasing her shadow and pretending not to listen.
   ‘In my fridge.’
   ‘Your fridge?’ I asked, incredulous.
   ‘I happen to like fridges,’ Pinkie said.‘When I first moved here, my owner kept me inside, but when I was allowed out I went to Elvis’s house by mistake.’
   ‘Well, it is only next door,’ Elvis said kindly.
   ‘Anyway, his fridge was open, and I just can’t resist an open fridge.’
   ‘Yes, but then my owner closed the door, trapping her. Luckily she forgot to put the milk back so when she opened it again, Pinkie jumped out. Gave my owner a bit of a fright you know,’ Elvis laughed.
   ‘Wow, that’s some story. Don’t you find fridges cold?’ I asked.
   ‘Of course, but then I don’t plan to spend that much time in them. It’s what you get out of them that counts.’ She said this as if it were the most normal thing in the world.
   ‘Anyway, I escorted her home and now she’s become a friend,’ Elvis finished. Tiger made a sound that sounded a bit like ‘hmmph.’
   ‘Well, it’s nice to meet you, although maybe you ought to keep out of fridges, they can be dangerous,’ I warned.‘And if you get stuck in one they might have to make you a lamppost cat.’
   ‘Anyway, as I was saying to Pinkie, Alfie is single,’ Rocky interrupted.
   ‘What?’ I said.
   ‘You know, Pinkie’s new to the area, you’re a single tom, you two could step out together. Just a thought.’
   So now my cat friends were trying to matchmake? Had that been their plan all along?
   ‘Sorry, Pinkie, but you know I’m still nursing a broken heart from my last relationship. I can’t think about courting another cat.’ I felt embarrassed all the way to the tips of my whiskers. This was awkward.
   ‘Hold on a minute,’ Pinkie cut in.‘Thanks, guys, for thinking of me, but Alfie, well, to be honest, you’re not my type.’
   ‘He’s not?’ Tiger had now stood up and looked interested.
   ‘No, I like my toms a bit more manly, if you know what I mean.’
   I was affronted. More manly? What on earth did she mean? Tiger was trying and failing not to laugh, and Rocky and Elvis couldn’t hide their smirks either.
   ‘Well, although I like to think of myself as quite macho, actually, at least we’re on the same page. And I’m sure we can be friends,’ I said, mustering all the dignity I had left. ‘But I have to be getting back. I have a kitten to check on. Don’t forget to be vigilant about those lamppost cats.’
   I left my friends where they were and walked home. Not manly enough, what on earth? I strutted and swaggered to show just how macho I could actually be.
   When I got home, the house was quiet and I enjoyed some time on my own whilst they were still out at the vet. I padded from room to room, enjoying the silence and the space. Just like the good old days, when Claire and Jonathan went to work and I had the whole house to myself. I would never wish for life to go back to what it was— I couldn’t imagine life without either Summer or George — but a bit of peace was nice.
   I pondered the missing cats. I certainly felt as if something strange was happening, and there might be a mystery to solve. It did seem an odd coincidence that four cats had now decided to leave their homes, but then it wasn’t impossible. Maybe their owners were mean, or gave them terrible food, or made them sleep in a shed? Any of those reasons would be justification for running away.
   I was dozing on Claire’s bed when I heard the door open. I stretched, yawned and licked my paws before making my way downstairs.
   ‘It’s OK, George, you’re home now,’ Claire was saying gently. The door to the cat carrier was open but George was refusing to come out. I leaned in and rubbed his nose to let him know I was here.
   ‘I don’t like the vet. Why didn’t you tell me?’ he said.
   ‘Because we all have to go. They are what we call a necessary evil. And now you’ve had your vaccinations you won’t have to go so often — hardly ever, in fact, if you stay healthy and out of trouble.’
   ‘Really? But I might have to go again?’ He looked at me with his big eyes full of terror.
   ‘I’m afraid all cats do from time to time, but listen, it gets easier.’ It really didn’t, in all honesty, but I wanted to be positive.‘And the good thing is that now you’ll be allowed outside and you’ll love that.’ Although suddenly I started fretting. There were all sorts of dangers outside and I didn’t want to think about what might happen to my kitten.‘But you don’t go out without me or a human, not yet anyway. Promise?’
   George looked at me with those big eyes that melted my heart every time.‘I promise, Dad.’
   Was there anything sweeter than that word?
   ‘I love hearing Summer call me Daddy,’ Jonathan said that evening as he and Claire were having dinner. The kids were in bed, as was Tash, so it was just the three of us in the kitchen.
   ‘I know. And you know what, you’ll love it when our next child calls you that too.’
   ‘Claire …’ Jonathan’s voice had a warning edge to it. I knew this issue was far from resolved but, what with everything that had been going on with Tash, it had been put on the back burner — or so I thought.
   ‘Look, Jonathan, I’m going to be positive about this. We have the adoption workshop tomorrow and then after that we’ll get allocated our own social worker. It’s early days, I know. We’ve got a long way to go, but I refuse to feel disheartened.’ Claire looked determined and I knew there was no arguing with her when she was like this.
   ‘Right, well how’s Tash doing?’ Jonathan seemed to agree with me that an argument with Claire was a waste of time right now, and obviously decided a subject change was easier.
   ‘I wanted to talk to you about that. The solicitor is great, thanks, and she suggested that Tash buy Dave out of the house. She said they have quite a lot of equity, because they bought it so long ago, and the prices have rocketed in their area, so her idea is that she buy hi m out and then if she doesn’t want to live in it she can rent it out.’
   ‘That makes sense,’ Jonathan said. ‘It’ll be a good investment for her and Elijah.’
   ‘I think at first she wanted to fight Dave a bit, you know, because he thought she’d just hand over half the money and she’d believe his half-baked promises to pay child support. And especially as he hasn’t made much effort to see his son since he moved out. But now she just wants to move on. So the solicitor is going to be firm but fair with Dave.’
   ‘Good for her. And if he does anything, I’ll go and see him. Or maybe a solicitor’s letter would be better. I never exactly took to Dave but I didn’t think he was this much of an idiot. What about finding her a new home?’
   ‘Well, there’s a flat coming up at the end of the road, a bit like Polly’s old one, which would be perfect for the two of them. The tenants are moving out in a month.’
   ‘Are you sure you didn’t kick them out?’ Jonathan raised an eyebrow.
   ‘No, although I admit I was asking around. I actually went to see the curtain twitchers.’ That was their name for Salmon’s owners, Vic and Heather Goodwin.
   ‘Blimey, you must really want her here, to have done that! Though it would be lovely to have them down the road. What does Tash think?’
   ‘I haven’t mentioned it, I wanted to talk to you first.’
   ‘Well, darling, I think it’s great. She can stay here until she’s ready to move somewhere else, either Edgar Road or wherever.’
   ‘See, you are such a compassionate man, Jonathan, you’ll be fine with this adoption.’ His smile quickly vanished, but Claire didn’t push it.
   ‘Oh, and Heather and Vic were talking about something else. You know there’s been a few cat posters going up on the street?’
   ‘This is London, unfortunately there are always cat pictures. I see loads on my way to the tube station. Maybe they’ve been hit by cars, or just run away,’ said Jonathan.
   ‘I know, but there is a bit of a spate of them at the moment. Anyway, Heather and Vic are going to mention it at the next neighbourhood watch meeting, as they think it might be a bit sinister.’ I felt my fur shiver. I hoped it wasn’t something bad, but I couldn’t help but feel they might beright.
   ‘Well, you know what those two are like, I’m sure there’s nothing to worry about,’ Jonathan replied.
   ‘I hope you’re right, darling.’ Claire sounded worried, which made me feel even more worried. I had a feeling we were on the cusp of something; I had to make sure the local cats all kept their eyes and ears well and truly open.
   Claire wanted an early night with her latest book club book, so after checking that George was fast asleep, I sat with Jonathan and we watched a film. Or he watched a film and I snuggled up and got a bit lost in my thoughts.
   ‘Oh, Alfie, I know there’s no stopping Claire when she makes her mind up, but I just don’t think I can do this adoption.’ He actually looked sad and I think I understood. Jonathan was a lovely, honourable man but he did struggle with his emotions a bit sometimes.
   I snuggled into him to try to reassure him that he could, but I was pretty sure that it wasn’t enough. I would have to think of another way. There were more changes a-paw, I could feel that, and suddenly I felt even more exhausted. Heartbreak, in whatever form, takes its toll and now it looked as if it might also be spreading its wings over all the people I loved.
   Chapter Fifteen
   [Ea?oeiea: i_015.jpg]
   ‘What’s this?’ George looked at me in wonderment as he tentatively padded his paw onto the lawn.
   ‘It’s grass,’ I replied.‘You can walk on it.’
   ‘It’s soft and springy and a bit damp!’ he exclaimed. Seeing things through his eyes did open mine to what I usually took for granted. Maybe that was the point of children and kittens? It certainly made having them make more sense. I smiled at him indulgently. Could he be any more adorable?
   ‘It’s very good for walking on, and it’s only damp because it’s still early, although when it rains it will be wet too.’
   ‘So it’s safe and not like a bath?’
   Educating George was still a bit of a chore. I watched him leap off across our small lawn. He was allowed outside now but only in the garden until he got used to the area. Claire and Jonathan were talking about getting a lead for him— honestly, we cats are not dogs — which was a terrible idea as I could do that just as well. I tried to tell Claire as much by miaowing very loudly and giving her my disapproving look but as Jonathan said, when she makes up her mind …
   George flipped onto his back and rolled over in the grass. He was so happy with such simple pleasures; it was yet another thing I loved about him. I could remember when all I wanted to do was to sit on a warm lap or relax in a sunny spot, but those simple days had ended prematurely for me after my first owner died when I was still young. I now wanted that simplicity for George, and to protect him from the complexities of life. That was when I knew that I was definitely a parent.
   ‘Hey, Alfie,’ I heard Tiger hiss quietly as she jumped over a fence and into our garden.
   ‘Tiger!’ I was delighted to see her.
   ‘I know the humans might not like it but I had to come and see you.’
   ‘They won’t mind, they know we’re friends. I don’t think they’d even mind if they found you in the house — Snowball used to visit all the time.’
   ‘Yeah, well, that was a bit different. Anyway, I wanted to meet George, plus I have something else to tell you.’
   George, on hearing another voice, approached us, hiding between my legs and looking a little scared.
   ‘Hey, George, there’s no need to be worried. This is Tiger, my best cat friend,’ I announced, feeling proud of my charge.
   ‘George, I am so pleased to meet you,’ said Tiger.
   George stepped out from between my legs and gave Tiger his most charming head tilt.‘Hello.’ He sounded so sweet.
   ‘Gosh, you are gorgeous!’ Tiger walked closer to him and rubbed him with her neck. I had never heard her sound so tender. Not with me anyway, that was for sure. Honestly, she’d only spent a few seconds in his company and she was already smitten.
   ‘Are you my mummy?’ George asked. ‘I don’t think you are, but you look a bit like her.’
   Tiger looked at me and I knew we both felt our hearts soften even more; I could see it in Tiger’s eyes.
   ‘No, George, but I am going to help Alfie take care of you, if you’d like me to.’ Tiger cuddled into my kitten, and George seemed to love that, stretching his paws out into the grass.
   ‘Do you have a kitten?’ George asked.
   ‘No, I’ve never had a kitten of my own … but maybe you can be my kitten.’ Tiger looked at me hopefully.
   ‘Hey, it goes without saying, Tiger. We’re like family and families take care of each other. That’s what I try to teach my humans and that’s what I’m now teaching George.’
   ‘Now I have a mummy and a daddy!’ George exclaimed. I looked at Tiger and was hit by an unexpected bolt of emotion.
   ‘Right, well then, George, when you’re allowed out more I will help you, with Alfie, get used to the area and the other cats. And if you feel like hunting then I can take you.’ I had never heard Tiger sound so excited. ‘Oh, think of the things we can do!’
   George bounded off and started jumping around at the other end of the garden, where he had spotted a low-flying bird. I looked at Tiger.
   ‘Do you think he’ll want to hunt?’
   ‘It’s natural for us cats, Alfie. Just because you’re rubbish at it doesn’t mean the boy won’t want to,’ Tiger teased.
   ‘It’s not just that. When I had to hunt, when it was the only way I got food, I still really didn’t like it. I’m just not that type of cat — so it’s lucky you’re around for George.’
   ‘Yowl!’ George tried to climb a bush and promptly fell off, landing on his tail and covering himself in blossom. Tiger and I smiled indulgently but let him get himself up again. My instinct was to rush to him whenever he fell but he had to learn to land properly.
   ‘Alfie, he is so lovely, I know exactly what you mean now,’ Tiger cooed.
   ‘Isn’t he just? Oh, what was the thing you said you had to tell me?’ I asked, suddenly remembering.
   ‘Well, I didn’t want to worry you but when I was on my early morning walk I heard Polly shouting at Matt as she left the house. She stormed down the road muttering to herself. She looked really cross.’
   I looked at Tiger thoughtfully, grateful that she had told me. It was the second week of Polly going to work and Matt staying at home, and although I hadn’t been able to visit them to find out how it was going, I had heard Claire and Jonathan saying that they were both finding it tough.
   ‘Thanks, Tiger, I’ll go and see them. Any other gossip?’
   ‘Well, the cats miss seeing you as much as they usually do, but you’ll be able to bring George by soon and it’ll be like old times. There haven’t been any more posters for a couple of days, which is good, so maybe that whole missing cat thing will blow over.’
   ‘Thank goodness.’ I had enough to worry about with my humans and George, I certainly didn’t want to worry about other cats as well.
   ‘The funniest thing is that Salmon has taken a liking to that Pinkie. You know, the one who thought you weren’t very manly! Anyway, he keeps trying to find excuses to see her and I’m not sure she feels the same way. Actually, I’m sure she doesn’t, she hides whenever he approaches, but seeing him try to flirt is the funniest thing ever. I think she’s scared to come and join us much now.’
   ‘Ha, serves her right for rejecting me,’ I said.
   ‘I thought you weren’t interested?’ Tiger’s eyes narrowed.
   ‘I’m not, but that doesn’t mean she shouldn’t have admired how handsome I am.’
   ‘Oh, Alfie, you’re such a vain cat. Please don’t pass on that trait to George.’
   We both looked at George. He was staring at his reflection in the glass door, preening and turning his head to look at himself from all angles.
   ‘Oh dear, it might be a bit late for that,’ Tiger laughed, before bidding us goodbye as Claire, Summer and Elijah all ran into the garden. Summer scooped George up and squeezed him tightly. Honestly, I did worry that she would stop him breathing sometimes.
   ‘Eli?’ Summer said.
   ‘Yes?’ he replied. He was used to being bossed about by her and didn’t seem to mind too much.
   ‘You pat Deorge now.’ She thrust my kitten towards Elijah and he obligingly stroked him. I smiled, George purred, and I felt content for the moment.
   A little while later I left George, who was still playing with Summer— or rather, Summer was dressing him up in her dolls’ clothes. He didn’t look exactly thrilled, but I had to go and see Matt, and I knew that being bossed around by Summer would at least keep him out of trouble for a while.
   I pestered Claire to let me out. Despite the fact George had had his vaccinations, his outings were still being monitored and so the cat flap wasn’t always open. I no longer worried about being let back in: if I sat on the kitchen or living room windowsill someone usually saw me. Although it wasn’t quite as convenient as the cat flap, it wasn’t too bad. I had cat friends who refused to use the cat flap, preferring to get their owners to let them in and out as if they were their butlers. Which I kind of understood now — it was pretty nice having my humans run around after me.
   I padded slowly to Matt and Polly’s house. It was early afternoon so I knew Polly would be at work and the kids probably at school, or at least Henry would be anyway. I let myself in and found Matt at the kitchen table, alone, with his laptop open in front of him. He didn’t look great. He hadn’t shaved, which wasn’t like him — he was usually as well-groomed as me.
   ‘Miaow,’ I said, loudly. He jumped a bit, looked up and smiled sadly.
   ‘Alfie, how are you?’
   ‘Miaow.’
   ‘I haven’t seen you in ages. Hey, have some tuna.’ I licked my whiskers; not only was I a bit peckish but it would be nice to eat without the threat of George stealing my food.
   He took a bowl out then opened a tin and emptied it in, placing it on the floor. He then got me some water. I was in for a feast.
   ‘It must be funny seeing me here in the middle of the day,’ he said as he watched me eat. I had learnt in my years of experience with humans not to interrupt them when they needed to talk. If I carried on eating quietly I knew he would say all he needed to say.‘I’m not used to it either,’he continued.‘I miss work. I feel useless, Alfie. Don’t get me wrong, I love spending more time with the kids but, well, I’m just not feeling myself.’ I could tell he wasn’t himself just by looking around. The sink still had dishes from breakfast and there were crumbs all over the kitchenfloor; usually their house was immaculate. Polly would never have let that happen.
   ‘Miaow,’ I concurred.
   ‘I know, it’s normally immaculate and Polly is much tidier than me. Don’t worry, I’ll sort it before I pick the kids up from school. Like I need to give Polly any more excuses to nag me! I haven’t done the washing and the place is a mess, but I am trying to find a job, you know. And it turns out housework is harder than I thought. The other day I tried to empty the hoover and I managed to tip it all over the kitchen floor. Honestly, I am not cut out for this.’ He looked so upset.
   He slumped down onto the kitchen chair. I quickly cleaned myself and hopped onto his lap. I looked at him, trying to tell him that he could do this. He was a strong man and this was only temporary. He would get the hang of the hoover, I was sure of it. He stroked me and I purred to give him some support. I wonder if he understood.
   ‘And so far there are no jobs around. I’ve applied for a couple but I know they’re not right and probably won’t want me. God, everything was so great, how on earth did it come crashing down on me? I really don’t understand, Alfie, and now it all feels as if it’s falling apart.’ He actually had tears in his eyes and I suddenly felt the seriousness of their situation.
   I wanted to yowl again, the way I had when Snowball left. It was so sad and it was as if my worst fears were being confirmed yet again. All I wanted was happiness for my families but we were getting the opposite. Matt looked so miserable, not like the man I knew at all. It was funny how life could change so suddenly. He used to look smart, stand tall and laugh all the time, nothing fazed him, but now he seemed diminished. Now I knew why he and Polly had been arguing. But, I wanted to tell him, if he cleaned up the house and himself, he would feel better. I had learnt that from Claire. I had an idea. I jumped up onto the draining board and miaowed loudly, over and over. Finally Matt laughed.
   ‘OK, Alfie, I’ll load the dishwasher and clean up. You’re right, at least then Polly won’t shout at me again.’ I kept him company while he cleaned the kitchen. Although he didn’t exactly look as if he felt brilliant, as he said, at least Polly and the kids would have a clean house to come home to.
   Matt also went to clean himself up before picking the children up from school. As I watched him shave and then put some jeans and a T-shirt on, he began to look like his old handsome self. He smiled at his reflection.
   ‘Thanks, Alfie, you’ve somehow managed to cheer me up a bit.’
   I rubbed his legs to let him know that he was most welcome, and then I left to go home to my kitten.
   Claire was at the sink when I appeared on the windowsill, making her jump. She laughed as I hopped down and waited by the back door, which she soon opened.
   I bounded in and found Summer in her booster seat at the kitchen table, eating carrots— or rather, sucking them and then throwing them on the floor. I wondered where George was; he was nowhere to be seen.
   ‘Miaow?’ I asked Claire.
   ‘Oh yes, Alfie, look, we have to be so careful, but I didn’t like to move him.’ I looked at her questioningly and followed her to the utility room. The washing machine door was open with some clothes inside and on top of them, fast asleep, was George. I shuddered: what if they’d put the machine on? I miaowed my disapproval. It was dangerous! Didn’t Claire know that?
   ‘Don’t worry, Alfie, I always check before I put the machine on and I’ll check even more carefully from now on. I think he was trying to get away from Summer. But he does look so comfortable there. I even took a picture. I daren’t put it on Facebook in case someone calls the RSPCA, but I’ll show Jonathan.’ I again miaowed my disapproval.
   ‘He’s fine, Alfie, don’t worry.’ That’s as maybe, but I wasn’t happy and it wasn’t like Claire to be so laid back. This was no place for a kitten; what if he’d been washed and drowned? I know she said she was being careful but what if Jonathan decided that today was the day he’d do the washing for the first time? I stayed in front of the washing machine, guarding it and waiting for George to wake up. There was no way I was taking any chances.
   Ow! I woke up with a start as something heavy landed on my head. I looked up and saw it was George.
   ‘Hi, Dad,’ he said.
   ‘You’re getting heavy,’ I complained. He jumped down. So much for guarding him, I’d fallen asleep! Although no one would have put the washing machine on with me lying in front of it.
   ‘I like my new bed,’ he said.
   ‘No, George, it’s not your new bed and you mustn’t go in there. If someone put the washing on you’d be in trouble.’ I know I sounded like a broken record, but that was parenthood for you. I was finding I had to say the same things over and over again.
   ‘Oh, but I can go to sleep looking at my reflection in the door.’
   Oh boy, maybe Tiger was right— my kitten was as vain as me.
   ‘That’s as maybe, but it’s not safe. Now promise you won’t go in there unless you tell me first.’
   ‘There seem to be a lot of rules,’ George protested.‘I might not be able to remember them all.’
   ‘Well, that’s life. And anyway, they’re all for your own good. Now go and have a drink of water, you need to keep hydrated.’
   ‘Yet another rule,’ George muttered, as he went to have a drink, only just dodging a flying carrot on the way.
   ‘Yowl,’ he protested quietly.
   ‘Summer, stop throwing food,’ Claire said sternly. I looked at Claire in understanding. This parenting lark wasn’t easy. It wasn’t easy at all.
   Chapter Sixteen [Ea?oeiea: i_016.jpg]
   There was a flurry of activity. Tash was finally moving into Edgar Road. She’d been living with us for well over a month now but Claire had found her a flat. It was ground floor, two bedrooms, small but with a back garden. Although her old house was far from sorted, Claire and Jonathan were helping her out. That was what friends did.
   ‘I just can’t see myself living there again, but I have to think of Elijah,’ Tasha had said one evening when talking about her old house.
   ‘Exactly,’ Jonathan had agreed. The three of them were sitting round the kitchen table, having supper and discussing Tasha’s future.‘And it makes sense to buy the idiot out of your house, rent it out and keep it as an investment.’
   ‘And if I rent the flat down the road, I’ll have enough to cover the rent and money left over. Although right now, when I’m still paying the mortgage and the house is empty, I’m not exactly quids in.’
   ‘We can help you, Tash,’ Claire had said.‘The main thing is to get a new home for Elijah and yourself, at least for a while anyway. You can see how it goes from there.’
   ‘You guys have been amazing.’ I had jumped up onto Tash’s lap then.‘And you, Alfie. Me and Alfie were best friends already but we’ve really bonded over heartbreak lately,’ she said with a sad smile. I rubbed my nose against her hand; we really had. But like me, Tash was slowly getting back to her old self. Not all the time, but there were glimpses, which was all we could hope for in these early days. She didn’t sleep as much as she did when she first moved in and she had stopped crying quite as often. And, most importantly, Elijah was so happy; he was as laid back as Summer was bossy.
   Later that day, I was relaxing at home with George. Jonathan had gone to Tash’s old house to organise the removal, Tasha had taken Elijah to the flat to get used to it, and Claire was tidying the house. We were all going to go to Tash’s new flat later, but Claire said that Tash and Elijah needed some time to be alone. The good news was that George was allowed out properly now, as long as he was on the lead, which he didn’t seem to mind but that was because he didn’t know better. I was overprotective but I did think that Claire should let him go out with me now. I was sure he was ready, I just had to find a way of letting her know. And he would be with Tiger ormyself at all times, I had already decided that would be the rule.
   The doorbell rang and Claire opened the door. Polly stood on the doorstep with the children.
   ‘Hey, Pol, come in,’ she said, ushering everyone inside. Martha and Summer immediately ran upstairs, with George following them. He loved being spoilt, and sometimes terrorised, by the two girls. Henry wandered into the living room and started trying to put the TV on.
   ‘Henry, you spend all your time watching TV, go and play,’ Polly said, sighing.
   ‘I’m not playing with them. They’re girls!’ Henry said. I couldn’t blame him; not only were they bossy, but they liked to play dress up, and were always trying to make Henry be a princess. Polly shrugged and put the TV on for him.
   ‘I just don’t have the energy to argue,’ she said to Claire as they went to the kitchen. I gave Henry a bit of a snuggle and then went to the kitchen.
   Claire put the kettle on and Polly sat down.
   ‘Are you all right, Pol? You look exhausted,’ Claire said.
   ‘Oh, where do you want me to start? Working full time for the first time in my life is so tiring. And then I come home and the house is a bombsite most of the time, but I’m trying not to nag Matt because he’s so miserable. I just feel like it’s all going to explode on me. The poor kids are caught in the crossfire. I mean I try not to shout at Matt, but honestly, Claire, I get home and he’s done nothing, yet he acts like he’s been run off his feet. And then he says the job hunt is taking all his time — but he’s only applied for two jobs! What on earth am I supposed to do?’ She looked terrified.
   ‘Hey, it’s probably just temporary, it’s a massive adjustment for both of you.’
   ‘I know, and I can’t tell Matt this, but I’m really enjoying my job. I feel like a grown-up again and I’m loving it much more than I thought I would. But I miss the kids. When I get home I just want to play with them, and spend some nice time with my husband, but then I have to clean up andget everything organised for the following day as well as tiptoeing around Matt. I feel like I’m doing it all.’
   ‘I know, honey, and you are, but I think Matt might be a bit depressed. Maybe I can get Jonathan to have a chat with him, not about anything in particular, but just to see how he is?’
   ‘That would be good. Maybe if Jonathan could take him out to the pub one evening?’
   ‘I’ll arrange it. Although I’m not saying how useful he’ll be, Jonathan doesn’t exactly do domestic very well!’
   ‘It’s worth a try,’ said Polly. I purred my agreement. ‘Oh, Alfie, I miss seeing you every day!’
   ‘Tonight, to cheer us up, we’re going to Tasha’s. Frankie’s meeting us there, she’s managed to get a babysitter, and we’re going to drink champagne and celebrate despite any misery!’
   ‘I’ll put some lipstick on and a smile on my face. Sorry to go on about myself when Tash is having such a hard time.’
   ‘Don’t be silly, everyone has problems. But I do want to make sure that the first night in the flat isn’t too awful for her.’
   ‘You know, it hits home, doesn’t it? I can’t imagine losing Matt and yet I feel that if we don’t do something I might.’
   ‘You won’t, but it does make you appreciate how lucky we are to have someone we love, even if they do drive us mad,’ Claire said, smiling.
   ‘I know, I just wish we could be a bit more like we used to,’ Polly sighed.‘I just want him to be happier. I wouldn’t mind the mess if he was cheerful. Well, I would, but maybe not quite so much.’
   ‘You’ll get there. It’s early days, honey, so just try to be patient.’
   I agreed with Claire: hopefully they would get used to it soon and then everyone would be happy again. Or happier, at least. I sighed to myself— so much of life was out of our control. A bit like George, I thought, as I saw him run down the stairs wearing a big yellow hat that had slipped over his eyes. He was shaking his head wildly, which made Claire and Polly laugh, before he banged into the wall. Still chuckling, they went over to him and gently removed the hat.
   ‘Yowl,’ he said sadly. He seemed a bit dazed.
   ‘What have those girls been doing to you?’ Polly asked, giving him a cuddle. He nestled into her and was soon purring again. If only all life’s problems could be solved so simply.
   Later on, we left Jonathan babysitting Summer and George as we called for Polly and made our way to Tash’s new flat. I’d told George that he was to stay home and spend time with Jonathan. When Claire saw me walking down the road next to her she smiled indulgently.
   ‘You probably deserve a night out,’ she said. As we walked along the street, I used the opportunity to look out for more lamppost cats. As we approached Tasha’s new flat I saw another notice. This time the picture was of a Siamese cat, who looked a bit mean but quite attractive. I stopped andpeered at it.
   ‘Oh no,’ Claire said. ‘Another missing cat.’
   ‘Don’t you think there’s been a few more than usual lately?’ Polly asked.
   ‘I guess. I mean, that’s what Heather and Vic were saying anyway but I just don’t know … As Jonathan says, it’s London and cats do go missing here or get run over.’ She shuddered. ‘Not Alfie and George though, thank goodness.’
   ‘I don’t know. I mean I know Heather and Vic are a pain but I do wonder if there’s something in what they’ve been saying,’ Polly said.
   I felt a bit relieved. Vic and Heather were terrors but if anyone was going to get to the bottom of the mystery of the lamppost cats, then I was sure it would be them— after all, they were very good at poking their noses into other people’s business.
   We stood on Tash’s doorstep. Claire and Polly were clutching bottles of champagne and snacks, and Polly looked much better than she had earlier in the day. She really had put on some lipstick and a smile, just as she’d said she would. When Tash opened the door, the flat immediately reminded me of when I first met Polly and Matt. It wasn’t their old flat, but it was almost identical in layout. I walked in and rubbed Tash’s legs.
   ‘You OK?’ Claire asked as they followed Tash into the small kitchen.
   ‘Well, it’s weird being here, but Elijah seems fine. He went to bed without any fuss, he’s such a good boy.’
   ‘Yeah, you lucked out with that one, the easiest child ever,’ Claire said.
   ‘Well, maybe compared to our girls,’ Polly laughed. ‘And actually he’s far more laid back than Henry too.’
   ‘He gets his laid-back nature from his father, let’s hope he hasn’t picked up his gutless bad points too … Sorry, I didn’t mean to start with a moan.’ A flash of anger crossed Tash’s face. Claire hugged her.
   ‘Hey, you moan away.’
   ‘And in the meantime I’m opening the champers,’ Polly said. ‘I could do with a drink! Glasses?’ As Tash opened a kitchen cupboard and located the glasses, Polly opened the champagne.
   ‘You’re pretty organised already,’ Claire said.
   ‘Well, thanks to your Jonathan. It’s much smaller here so we only took what we needed. I managed to unpack most of it while Elijah was napping,’ Tash explained.
   ‘Can I ask? What about Dave?’ Polly asked, cringing a bit. ‘I mean, does he know about the move?’
   ‘I haven’t told him yet. Anyway, he’s already moved in with his other woman. He said he’s living with his mum but when she called me about seeing Elijah she let it slip.’
   ‘So you’re on good terms with his mum?’ Polly asked.
   ‘Yes, she’s furious with him. We’ve always got on well and I’ve said that she can see her grandson whenever she wants. But then what about this woman?’ She burst into tears. ‘I’m sorry, but I still can’t bear the idea of another woman around my baby.’ As Claire comforted her, the doorbell went. Polly opened it and came back with Franceska.
   ‘Oh, Tasha,’ Franceska said. She was carrying bags filled with food from the restaurant. I was worried and upset for Tash but I was almost distracted by the smell of sardines. I had to shake my head to focus as I rubbed against Tash’s legs.
   ‘Men!’ Polly said, handing everyone a glass of champagne. ‘I’m not suggesting we toast them because, let’s face it, at the moment none of us are one hundred per cent happy, so maybe we toast against them?’
   ‘Don’t get me started,’ Franceska said, looking upset. Oh no, not her too!
   ‘What’s up, Frankie?’ Polly asked, concerned.
   ‘No, not tonight. We’re celebrating Tasha’s new flat, so back to the toast.’
   ‘God, I’m happy to toast against men,’ Tash said, trying to laugh as she took a sip.‘And hey, at least you guys can count your blessings, none of your men are in any way, shape or form as awful as Dave.’
   ‘I guess we can drink to that?’ Franceska said uncertainly, and they all laughed.
   I tucked into my sardines with relish. It was certainly nice having a night out and not having to take care of George, although I missed him and worried about him too. I just hoped Jonathan was taking good care of him. The women all seemed to be having a good time now, after a rocky start. Men had become a banned topic and so they chatted instead about Polly’s new job, Claire’s adoption plans, Franceska and Tomasz’s new restaurant and Tash’s idea about how to make the flat her own. As Polly promised to help her with the interior, they all settled into easy chatter, and lots of laughter, which grew louder as more champagne was drunk. It seemed they were emptying the bottles at an alarming rate, which was OK because at least no one was crying.
   Later that night, they all kissed Tash goodbye, Franceska got into a taxi to take her home and Claire and Polly staggered down the road with me. Neither of them seemed to be able to walk in a straight line, so I had to keep dodging them to make sure I wasn’t stepped on. When we got in I ran upstairs to find George fast asleep in my bed. I felt a surge of relief, followed by a rush of love as I snuggled down next to him. I drifted off to sleep cuddling my kitten, feeling glad that, for tonight at least, the women were all happy again — or at least happier than they had been lately.
   Chapter Seventeen
   [Ea?oeiea: i_017.jpg]
   I was incredibly excited. George was finally allowed out, further than the garden and without the lead or any humans— although of course I warned him to not go anywhere without me. He asked ‘why’ a million times but I was reluctantly getting used to that. It was a momentous occasion and one that felt a long time coming, mainly due to Claire’s overcautious behaviour.
   The cat flap had been formally unlocked. Jonathan had been pleased, saying that I had a habit of making him let me in when he was in the middle of watching something. He said it as though I did it on purpose. Anyway, freedom was once again mine. I was excited to introduce George to my friends, to my street and to the great outdoors, the world that existed beyond our small lawn. I was also going to pop in to see Matt, so George could see where they lived, and then if we had time I would show him Tasha’s flat, although she didn’t have a cat flap so we could only visit with her if she was in and saw us. A bit like the old days with Franceska and the boys really. Wow, freedom once more — I vowed never to take it for granted again.
   I was looking forward to our first excursion very much and had taken extra time over my grooming. I wasn’t sure why, but humans always dressed up for special occasions and this, George’s first proper outing, was definitely a special occasion. I tried to make sure he looked his best too, but let’s be honest, he was so cute that I really didn’t need to worry. I jumped through the cat flap first, George following behind me. He was still a little unsure of it, although he was getting better. He had grown a lot in the time he’d been with us, and although still a kitten he was big enough now to run, jump, and climb.
   George blinked as the sun hit his eyes. It was a lovely, sunny day for his first trip.
   ‘Right, stay close to me and don’t worry, I won’t let anything happen to you,’ I said, giving him my best pep talk.
   ‘I know, Dad,’ he said. We slid under the gate and made our way to the front of the house.
   ‘Before we start, I need to give you a lesson about roads.’ As we stood on the pavement, a number of cars whizzed past us.‘You see, those cars are dangerous.’ I had nearly been hit a number of times when I first encountered roads.‘Don’t cross the road unless it’s clear both ways,’ Icontinued sternly.
   As we walked I gave George a full tour of Edgar Road. I pointed out Salmon’s house and said it was to be avoided at all costs, although there was no sign of him anywhere, thank goodness. Our first stop was Tiger’s house where we waited in her front garden, by her favourite bush. George wriggled under it and started playing with leaves. Tiger emerged a few moments later.
   ‘Oh, hi, I was hoping you’d be here already,’ she said, ignoring me and giving George a nuzzle. I looked at her indignantly. Having a kitten meant I was getting used to being ignored but it didn’t mean Tiger could get away with it.
   ‘Hello, Tiger-Mum,’ George said, so sweetly that Tiger looked as if she might cry.
   ‘Right, come on, we have to give George a proper tour of the neighbourhood,’ I said, no longer feeling slighted.
   ‘OK, but George, you’re still only little so you must tell us if you get tired,’ Tiger said, sounding sweet and concerned. I raised my whiskers; what had happened to my Tiger?
   ‘I will, let’s go, let’s go.’ George was full of excitement as he bounded off in the wrong direction.
   ‘George, this way,’ I said, and he turned round and joined us. We made our way slowly to our cat meeting point. I pointed out Polly and Matt’s house on the way and explained that Tash’s flat was in the other direction, although I’m not sure how much George was taking in. He was so busy looking around that I doubted he was listening.
   ‘I bet you’re glad Tasha’s moved into Edgar Road,’ Tiger said as we stopped and watched George staring at an overgrown plant for a minute.
   ‘Yes. Not only is she one of my favourite people but it’s good to be able to keep an eye on her,’ I said.
   ‘I like Elijah,’ George said.‘He’s funny.’
   ‘I love how all the kids get on so well,’ I mused as we moved on, gratified that George was listening after all.
   ‘And any more news about the cat pictures?’ Tiger said.
   ‘Not in front of the kitten,’ I said, as quietly as I could.
   ‘What was that?’ George asked.
   ‘Nothing,’ Tiger and I replied at the same time. I looked at her with concern.
   I was delighted to see that our cat friends were already congregated. Nellie was sunbathing, Elvis was sitting in a shady spot and Rocky was cleaning his paws. I excitedly ran up to join them.
   ‘Look, I’ve brought George to see you,’ I said breathlessly.
   ‘Where?’ Rocky asked, looking up.
   ‘Right there.’ I turned around but George and Tiger were nowhere to be seen.‘They were there a minute ago.’ Panicking, I turned and retraced my steps. I found Tiger looking at George, who was sitting on a gatepost in front of someone’s house.
   ‘What happened?’ I asked, concerned.
   ‘When you ran off George decided to jump on the gatepost. He says he likes it up there.’
   ‘George, come down now,’ I said.
   ‘No. Look, there’s a funny animal in the garden.’ I jumped up onto the other post and looked in. The funny animal was a small dog, who was yapping at George and now me. ‘I’m going to go in there to see it.’
   ‘No!’ I shouted, a bit more forcefully than I intended. George jumped but thankfully stayed on the gatepost.‘George, dogs are to be avoided at all costs. Now come down.’ I leapt down, having used my sternest voice, and George reluctantly followed me.
   ‘Right, this is George,’ I said for the second time when we rejoined the others.
   ‘Aww, you’re so incredibly sweet. I’m Nellie,’ Nellie cooed. She went up to George and made a fuss of him.
   ‘Nice to meet you, George, I’m Elvis.’ Elvis looked overjoyed to see my kitten.
   ‘I’m Rocky, nice to meet you.’ Rocky stopped looking at his paw and came over to greet us.
   ‘Wow, you’re all cats,’ George said.‘And there are so many of you!’
   ‘We certainly are,’ Rocky said.‘And Alfie was right, this is one cute kitten.’ All three cats were immediately taken with George, I could tell.
   ‘Come with me, George, I’ll show you the bush that attracts butterflies,’ Nellie said.
   ‘What are butterflies?’ he asked.
   ‘Follow me and you’ll find out.’ I sat and watched proudly as Nellie took George to see the butterflies. He really is my boy, I thought, as I watched him jumping around. Of course he never actually caught a butterfly, but then neither had I, and I’d been playing for a lot longer. We just liked chasing things, usually without much success — though I did swat a fly once at home. Jonathan had been so pleased with me, until he realised it was a fluke.
   ‘Nice youngster,’ Elvis said to me. ‘Look, here comes the other cat I mentioned to you, Tinkerbell.’ I hoped that this wasn’t another of his attempts to set me up. I know I was busy but I still thought of Snowball in any spare moment I had — usually before I went to sleep at night. But when I came face to face with the new cat I realised something strange.
   ‘But you’re a boy,’ I said, confused.
   ‘Have we been introduced?’ Tinkerbell growled. Not only was he male, but he was big, about twice the size of me. I felt a little threatened.
   ‘Sorry, I’m Alfie and I’ve heard about you but, well, you’re called Tinkerbell so I assumed you were a girl.’
   ‘No, I’m a tom.’ He raised his whiskers.‘Look, my owner wanted a girl cat so when they got me they gave me a girl’s name. To be honest I’d rather not talk about it. If you’re a friend, you can call me Tinks.’
   ‘Nice to meet you, Tinks.’ I gave him my most charming look.‘And sorry for the misunderstanding. I didn’t mean to be rude, it’s just that my friend Elvis here seems to want to set me up with female cats so …’
   ‘Oh yes, I heard you’re the heartbroken one. But no need to make a fuss, I’m happy with my name and my sexuality, thank you very much. And now that we’ve cleared that up, we can be mates.’
   ‘What does it mean? Setting my dad up with a female?’ I hadn’t heard George approach but he was standing behind me with Nellie and Tiger.
   ‘Well, young George, it’s just that we thought Alfie might like a new girlfriend, and then you could have a new mum,’ Rocky explained.
   ‘Oh, no, thank you,’ George replied.‘Tiger’s my mum.’
   ‘Aww,’ Tiger and Nellie both said, and I swear I have never seen Tiger look so moved. Even Tinkerbell softened. This kitten could win any charm competition, of that I was certain.
   ‘Goodness, Alfie and Tiger, you guys are like a married couple already, so I guess it makes sense,’ Rocky laughed. I shot him one of my looks.
   ‘Well, George, we’re all your friends here, so if you need anything, then you just ask,’ Elvis said.
   ‘But don’t come here on your own,’ I warned. ‘Not yet anyway. Either me or Tiger need to escort you.’
   ‘As if I would,’ George replied innocently.
   Apart from George nearly jumping into that dog’s garden — and I dreaded to think how that might have ended up — our first proper trip was a great success. My kitten was greatly admired by all and I felt so proud. Unfortunately, however, it was getting late and there was no time to drop into Matt and Polly’s house. That would have to wait for another day.
   ‘Honestly, Alfie, you’re like the cat who got the cream,’ Tiger said as she dropped us home.
   ‘I have George, and he’s better than any cream,’ I replied.
   Chapter Eighteen
   [Ea?oeiea: i_018.jpg]
   Back in the relative safety of home I had a quick catnap on the sofa while George was carted off to play with Summer. She was cross that we’d had been out when she got back from nursery. She kept stamping her feet and crossing her arms, saying ‘bad Alfie,’ which I thought was a little unfair. But Claire found it funny so I only gave a small yowl of objection. Then I went to have a well-deserved rest. As I drifted off I thought of how well George had coped with the trip, and I was pleased that the other cats welcomed him so readily. Deep down I had known they would, but it was still gratifying to see them admiring my kitten. I thought I would bask in his reflected glory as I fell asleep.
   A commotion woke me. Although I had only intended a quick nap, even that had been cut short. I jumped up in fright as I heard Summer scream. Both Claire and I ran to her room.
   ‘What’s the matter, poppet?’ Claire asked.
   ‘Deorge, up there,’ Summer said, pointed upwards. We all looked and saw George tucked on top of Summer’s wardrobe.
   ‘He must have climbed,’ Claire said, hugging her daughter. ‘It’s OK, he’s just playing.’ She smoothed Summer’s blonde hair and the tears started to subside.
   ‘No, Deorge stuck,’ Summer shouted, putting her thumb in her mouth.
   ‘He’s stuck?’ Claire looked up at him uncertainly. She was fairly tall but she couldn’t reach the top of the wardrobe. George looked at me and then put a paw over his eyes. Ah, I thought, he had got up there easily — at a guess he had jumped on the chest of drawers and then onto the wardrobe — but he didn’t feel quite so confident in getting down. After all, it was quite high for such a little one. I looked at Claire, and then at Summer, and finally at George. Despite the fact that I didn’t like heights and my legs were aching a bit from all the exercise earlier, I would have to save the day. I jumped onto the chest of drawers and then leapt up and onto the wardrobe, thankfully landing beside George.
   ‘Look, Sum, it’s OK, Alfie will help him down,’ Claire said. Summer seemed happier.
   ‘Oh, hello, Dad,’ George said quietly.
   ‘George, you must be careful. You’re stuck. Why did you jump up here if you’re too scared to jump back down?’ I asked, trying not to sound cross. After all, we all did stupid things. I’d done too many to count.
   ‘Oh, I’m not stuck,’ George replied. ‘Why did you think that?’
   ‘Well, Summer said you were and when I looked at you you put your paw over your eyes.’
   ‘Oh, Dad, that was to tell you I came up here to hide from Summer. She wanted me to be her baby and she tried to put me in her pushchair like a doll and I didn’t really like it. I can get down, I just don’t want to.’
   ‘Well, what do we do now? Claire thinks you’re stuck, and now I’m up here when I don’t really like being this high. You’ll have to come down with me.’
   ‘Only if you promise you won’t let her put me in the pushchair.’
   ‘OK, get down and we’ll go straight downstairs, it’s your teatime anyway.’ He looked at me uncertainly.
   ‘Promise?’ he said.
   ‘Yes, now come on.’ George jumped down with ease; I envied him his youth and fearlessness as I tentatively followed. Then we both made for the stairs before Summer could object.
   That night, George was fast asleep in my bed, exhausted from his busy day. Summer was tucked up in bed too, so I sat with Claire and Jonathan in the living room.
   ‘How’s Tash?’ Jonathan asked.
   ‘Actually not too bad, it’s like she’s a different person since she moved into the flat. I really think she’s beginning to feel a bit like her old self. The solicitor’s proving a godsend and has put a rocket up Dave. He’s been threatened with court unless they sort out maintenance for Elijah. She’s got the mortgage approved for the house, so that’s all being finalised, but it’s sad too. They were together for so long and it’s all fallen apart so quickly. She still misses him, I think, but she’s pretty brave. What with her job and her boy she’s being kept busy.’
   ‘Well, we have family day on Sunday, so she’ll spend the day with us, won’t she?’ I pricked up my whiskers. I loved family day; every month all my families would get together and I’d have all the people I loved in one place. Sometimes it happened more often, but if not, then I always had that to look forward to.
   ‘Yes, she’ll be with us, and so will everyone else, which we all need. I mean, it seems that Polly and Matt are barely talking and Frankie says she and the boys will only get to see Tomasz because of family day. It’ll be good for the kids, and everyone’s coming to ours because they all wantto see George.’
   ‘That kitten is a star attraction,’ Jonathan laughed.
   ‘You’ll never guess what he did this afternoon …’ Claire told Jonathan about the wardrobe incident, which Jonathan seemed to find funny. Claire snuggled into him and kissed his cheek. I lay on the armchair, one eye on the two of them.
   ‘Right, well I guess we ought to think about going to bed,’ Jonathan said.
   ‘It is going to be all right, isn’t it?’ Claire asked suddenly. I didn’t know exactly what she meant, but I was sure by the look on his face that Jonathan did.
   ‘Of course it is, darling,’ he replied, but he sounded uncertain.
   On Sunday, as everyone descended on us for family day, I think I almost understood what Claire had meant the other night. As soon as everyone arrived, George was indeed the star attraction. He purred and preened as everyone made a huge fuss of him, then of me as a bit of an afterthought, but I was mature enough to accept that. But it went downhill from there. After a bit of a strained lunch, the adults all seemed a little bit lost in their own thoughts instead of their usual chatty selves. There were three camps. The children were one, which was usual and now included George. Luckily Aleksy, being the oldest, was in charge, so I knew George was in good hands, and he’d come and get me if needed. The men had taken over the living room, and in the kitchen the women had commandeered the kitchen table. I found myself having to move between the two adult camps.
   The men were more subdued than usual.
   ‘Is something wrong with us?’ Jonathan asked finally, after even he got fed up of the silence — he usually enjoyed some peace and quiet.
   ‘I’m just not in a great place,’ Matt admitted.‘I miss working. This Mr Mum stuff isn’t me. And yes, I know I sound like a sexist pig because my wife tells me often enough. And it’s not even the kids, I love being with them but I would rather be at work. I miss it. Remember, I actually loved what I did.’
   ‘So no luck on the job hunt?’ Tomasz asked, eyes full of sympathy.
   ‘Yes and no. I’ve got a couple of meetings lined up but nothing concrete, there’s not much about at the moment. All my contacts are looking out for me but they all say I have to be patient.’ Matt shook his head.
   ‘Are you guys OK financially?’ Jonathan asked. He sounded concerned.
   ‘Yes, Polly’s new job has been a lifesaver. She loves the job but I know that coming home to me, as grumpy as I am, isn’t much fun for her. As it is, she’s tired all the time, working long hours and then rushing home to see the kids. She gets back and then once we’ve put them to bed she has to work most nights. We don’t spend enough time together — I’m miserable because I miss work, she’s miserable because I am, and also I’m not good at laundry or something.’ He laughed, sadly.
   ‘Well, on the flip side, I’m working too much and Franceska is very not happy,’ said Tomasz. ‘In fact, she tells me today she and the boys are going back to Poland for the school holiday, because they never see me anyway. I know I work too much but the restaurants are doing so well now, andyes, I have a manager, but I can’t hand over control yet.’ Tomasz looked guilty.
   ‘Mate, you have to trust other people. You can’t do it all yourself, what’ll happen when you have ten restaurants all over the country?’ said Jonathan.
   ‘I know, it’s not easy, but if I get these two right then I feel I can step back and let others do more work, no?’
   All the men shrugged.
   ‘Anyway, Jon, you’re OK, aren’t you?’ Matt asked.
   ‘Who thought this would turn into a sharing afternoon? Quick, better put the football on,’ Jonathan replied, changing the subject.
   After that depressing interlude I went into the kitchen.
   ‘So I said to him, he can formalise the child support or we’ll have to go to the CSA and I’ll take him to court to sort out the house as well. I’ve been more than reasonable but he’s just being so awful. Anyway, we have a mediation booked in. Sounds like fun, right? Means I have to see him again, which I’m dreading, but I have to do what’s best for Elijah.’
   I took a drink of water before going to sit with Franceska. If she was going away, I wanted to spend a bit of time with her.
   ‘I hope it does good,’ Franceska said. ‘I have to tell you, we’re going to Poland for the summer, me and the boys, not Tomasz.’
   ‘Oh goodness, that sounds great,’ Claire said. Really? It didn’t sound good to me, a whole summer apart from her husband, not to mention me. I would miss them terribly.
   ‘Yes, well, Tomasz is so busy, so I thought we could see family and have a holiday, and the boys don’t remember much about home, so it’s good for them. Tomasz is not happy but he is all work, work, work.’
   ‘Maybe that’s what Matt and I need, a holiday,’ Polly mused.
   ‘Can’t you take one?’ Claire asked.
   ‘No, I wouldn’t get time off work, being so new. And anyway, I’m not sure Matt would want to take a holiday, not when he hasn’t got a job sorted and he’s feeling so down. No, actually, I know he won’t. Maybe next year.’ She smiled. ‘Anyway, Claire, at least you’re OK.’ I marvelled at the difference between the way the men and women talked. They were kind of saying the same things, but just in a very different way.
   ‘Oh yes, we’re fine,’ Claire said with a loud sigh.
   ‘Changing the subject,’ Tash said. ‘You know that neighbourhood watch couple?’
   ‘Oh God, Vic and Heather,’ Polly groaned.
   ‘Yes, the ones in the matching jumpers,’ Tash laughed. ‘They cornered me the other day talking about the increase in missing cats. Apparently six have been reported missing from the area now.’
   I pricked up my ears.
   ‘I know, we’ve seen the pictures on the lampposts. Makes me really sad. Imagine if Alfie or George went missing.’ I shuddered as Claire said this.
   ‘Well, they seem to think something sinister is going on,’ Tash continued. ‘Apparently they’re going to hold a meeting soon.’
   ‘Oh no, not a meeting.’ Polly put her head in her hands.
   ‘Their meetings go on for days,’ Claire explained.
   ‘But these cats, no one knows what’s happened?’ Franceska asked.
   ‘No. Jon thinks they just didn’t like their owners or fancied a change of scene.’
   ‘Matt said maybe there’s a cat snatcher, like the child snatcher inChitty Chitty Bang Bang,’ Polly said.
   I put my paws over my ears.
   ‘Shush, Polly, not in front of Alfie,’ Claire chastised. ‘And that’s ridiculous. Besides, if anyone tried to take our cats we would sort them out.’ Claire looked at me as she said this and I felt marginally reassured.
   It wasn’t good, these missing cats — I could feel it in my fur. But for now there was little I could do, so I went upstairs to see the children, following the trail of their laughter. At least they were having fun, and I needed to join in with that while I came up with a plan for what to do with my troublesome grown-ups, and tried not to worry about this cat problem at the same time.
   Chapter Nineteen
   [Ea?oeiea: i_019.jpg]
   It never rains but it pours. My very first owner, Margaret, used to say that a lot. I didn’t always understand what it meant but I think I do now. After family day I spent quite a lot of time fretting. I worried about all my families, including Tasha, who had been in floods of tears after mediation had gone horribly wrong. She was now talking about taking Dave to the cleaners — wherever that was — and saying that her parents were going to pay her legal bills so she could do so. She was refusing to hand over the money for the house sale, which the solicitor held in an account, until it was all settled, and things had turned a bit nasty. Jonathan said that if Dave came near her he would get involved, but thankfully Tasha hadn’t told her ex where she was living and anyway, she said, he was too lazy to do anything. It was all in the hands of the law now and Tasha was refusing to speak to him, or have anything to do with him apart from through solicitors. It was a bit complicated for me to follow, being a cat, but I was trying. Oh, and he’d still only made half-hearted attempts to see Elijah which upset everyone. We all loved Elijah and I couldn’t understand any father who didn’t want to see his child as much as possible. Look at me and George.
   It was also literally pouring. As George and I sat on the windowsill watching the rain drip down the pane, I was worrying about everyone and everything.
   I was feeling helpless and hopeless. I couldn’t help Tasha, but actually knowing that she had this solicitor person as well as Claire and Jonathan made me feel better. I couldn’t seem to help Matt and Polly, who seemed to be barely speaking whenever I saw them. I couldn’t help Franceska and Tomasz, who were going to be apart. Aleksy andlittle Tomasz were so excited for their holiday but I worried that it meant Franceska might never come back! I couldn’t imagine losing them from my life. And it seemed I couldn’t help Claire and Jonathan, who only the previous night had had a massive row.
   ‘Did you have to say that to the social worker?’ Claire had shouted the previous evening as we sat in the living room.
   ‘I only said there was no history of criminal activity or insanity in my family …’ Jonathan tried not to smile.‘It was a joke!’
   ‘Then you said you weren’t sure about my mother! Did you really think that was funny?’
   ‘Well, your mother can come across as a bit bonkers.’ He laughed.
   ‘This is just a big joke to you, isn’t it, us getting a child, a sibling for Summer, another child for us to parent? I can’t believe you sometimes.’
   ‘Of course not, it was just a stupid joke, Claire. The social worker needs to know we have a sense of humour, surely?’
   ‘Well, you’re not funny.’
   Claire had slept in the spare room, the room that Tash had only recently vacated. I know she cried herself to sleep too, because I slept with her, leaving George for the first time since he’d moved in, although I did check him regularly, which of course meant I was feeling a little sleep deprived myself.
   The atmosphere had been strained here all day, a bit like at Polly and Matt’s. So far, Claire was refusing all of Jonathan’s efforts to make up and when they left for work and to take Summer to nursery it was a relief to have that atmosphere out of the house along with them.
   ‘What is wrong with people?’ George asked me, chasing a raindrop with his paw and bringing me back to the present.
   ‘Oh dear, where do I start?’ I began to tell him all I knew. As I started feeling more and more fearful, I tried to downplay the situation for George’s sake. Yes, he needed to know how humans worked, especially if he was going to take after me, but he was still so young — I had to protect him. As I was thinking of how I was going to fix each of my humans, from Tash, who had suddenly gone from the top of my worry list almost to the bottom, to Matt and Polly, Franceska and Tomasz and now Claire and Jonathan, George jumped down from the windowsill and ran off. I pulled myself from my reverie and went to find him.
   When George had first come to live here, Claire was pretty careful about where he was allowed to go. All the bedroom doors were kept closed, as was the bathroom and the downstairs loo, so he was basically confined to the kitchen/dining room and living room. Despite the stair gate, he could get up the stairs, but once he was there he was confined to the landing. Now that he was bigger, however, they didn’t bother to close the doors, the argument being he knew what he was doing (he didn’t) and he was still never left alone (he was). But he had more freedom and now I had to locate him, with so many more places he could be.
   He wasn’t in the kitchen. I knew he hadn’t gone outside or I would have heard the cat flap, so I did a quick look around the utility room, especially the washing machine, before heading upstairs.
   ‘George,’ I called out loudly, but there was no answer. I tried to stem my growing panic as I checked the bedrooms, telling myself that he couldn’t be far, he was just a kitten after all … The bathroom door was closed, as was the door to Jonathan and Claire’s en suite, so at least I didn’t have to worry about him having fallen into the loo again. But still, I couldn’t help but panic. I knew he was here but because I couldn’t see him there was this irrational worry that I couldn’t quite keep away. I went back into the spare room.
   ‘George,’ I shouted again. I heard a little muffled sound. I traced it to the wardrobe where Claire kept some of her clothes, and saw that the door was a tiny bit ajar. I hit at it with my paw until it opened a bit more and I saw George lying on one of Claire’s jumpers which were piled up on the bottom of the wardrobe.
   ‘George, I was worried! I’ve been calling you. Why didn’t you answer me?’
   ‘But, Dad, if I answered you it wouldn’t be hide and seek would it?’
   ‘Hide and seek?’
   ‘Yes, the children taught me the other day, it’s so much fun. One person seeks and the others hide.’
   ‘Yes, thank you, I do know how to play, but the point is that we weren’t playing hide and seek, I was sitting on the windowsill with you one minute and the next you were gone.’
   ‘Oh, maybe I should have told you.’ George had confusion in his beautiful eyes. ‘Right, now why don’t you hide?’ He didn’t seem contrite or even aware of the worry he caused me.
   ‘I don’t really feel like it.’ I was still busy fretting over my families, and now that I’d found George, I had to calm myself down again.
   ‘Please, Dad, it’s the best game ever!’ His eyes were wide with hope and I couldn’t help but smile. I remembered when Aleksy had first played the game with me — it had been such fun. How could I disappoint? Besides, it was raining outside, so there was nothing else we could do.
   ‘OK, you count to ten and I’ll hide.’
   ‘But I don’t know how to count!’
   ‘OK, well just give me a bit of time then.’ I wasn’t sure if I could count either. It wasn’t the most useful skill for a cat, after all.
   I went to Summer’s room and decided to climb into her toy box, which was overflowing with her collection of soft toys. By my reckoning, if it took George ages to find me, I would at least be comfortable.
   I woke some time later to George licking my head. I opened my eyes and stretched.‘Sorry, I fell asleep.’
   ‘Wow, you are really good at hiding!’ he exclaimed.‘My turn, my turn.’ He ran off. I felt a bit better for my catnap, but I didn’t rush as I climbed out of the toy box. I could hear George running down the stairs, so I waited a bit on the landing. I noticed that the rain had slowed and I jumped up onto the landing windowsill to see a glimmer of blue sky peeking through the clouds. I wondered if we could go out in a bit — it would be good to get some exercise and perhaps we could pop in to see Matt … Suddenly, there was a loud bang, which made me jump.
   ‘Yowl,’ I heard George cry. Honestly, I really must stop getting so distracted, what kind of parent was I? I ran down the stairs and into the kitchen. I stopped when I saw that one of the cupboards was open, its contents over the floor, and George was poking out of a plastic bag, tangled up in the handle.
   ‘George, what have you done?’ I asked, using my paw to get the bag off him.‘Bags are dangerous, you must be careful,’ I chastised. Although of course there was a big hole, which was how he’d got in, so I didn’t really need to be too worried. And us cats did like bags, I used to climb into Margaret’s shopping bags all the time when I was little.
   ‘I was just trying to move it and I fell into it,’ he replied. Honestly this kitten was getting a bit too defiant.‘But I like it!’
   ‘Not the point. What is this mess?’ I asked, surveying the packets and boxes scattered across the floor.
   ‘I managed to open that cupboard, which I thought was quite clever, and I wanted to hide but to make it really good hiding I decided to take everything out and hide right at the back, but then I didn’t know how to get it back in …’
   ‘Oh, George.’ I started trying to figure out how to get things back in the cupboard before realising that I had no chance, so I left it like it was, knowing I would probably be the one who got told off. I wasn’t best pleased with George but I was also cross with Claire and Jonathan. They had put those funny childproof things on most of the cupboards to stop Summer, so why hadn’t they done this one? Honestly, parenting was going downhill these days.
   I was exhausted after my attempts to tidy up, but George was hopping around wanting to play. He had far too much energy, so I decided that we would brave the outside. I led him out through the cat flap.
   ‘It’s wet!’ he screeched as he stood in a puddle and a big fat raindrop plopped onto his head.
   ‘OK, look, we’ll go and see Matt, come on, I’ll take you the back way.’ I led him over and under fences in the direction of Polly and Matt’s house. Luckily it was a dog-free route. Although George still didn’t like the rain I was hoping that the exercise would wear him out a bit. He wasone exhausting kitten at times.
   We let ourselves in through the cat flap, and as we both dripped a bit onto the kitchen floor, Matt appeared, talking on the phone. He smiled at us.
   ‘Polly, calm down. I’ve said it’s OK. I’ll pick the kids up, get them ready for bed and if they’re not too tired they can stay up and see you when you get home.’ He listened for a bit. ‘OK, love you.’ He put the phone down and then looked at us.
   ‘You guys are pretty damp. Stay in here until you dry off.’ He put the kettle on and I shook my fur. George went and lay in the warmest spot he could find.‘Right, well, nice to see you boys. This being at home on my own is a bit dull, to be honest. Don’t know how Polly did it, but she neverseemed to complain … I miss going to work though, I miss the pressure as well as the actual job.’ I went to him and rubbed his leg, but carefully, so he didn’t get too wet.‘Thanks, Alfie. Anyway, I’m trying to make the best of it. I love spending more time with the kids, I really do enjoythat, and it’s nice because I’m seeing them do things I’ve never been around for before. But the school gate is a bit scary, all those women. And in this day and age it still is mainly women, I’m not even being sexist. I got asked to go for coffee today but I was too afraid so I made an excuse. If I’m not careful they’ll draft me onto the PTA!’
   ‘Miaow?’ I had no idea what he was talking about, none whatsoever.
   ‘I really do need to get a job. I mean, I might have got the hang of being a househusband, nearly, but it’s just not me, and I miss Polly. I miss us being together and not arguing. I honestly think if I had a job then we wouldn’t argue as much.’
   He sat down with his tea and George started chasing his shadow across the kitchen floor.
   ‘If only life were that simple, eh, Alfie?’ Matt said, looking at George. I purred my agreement. If only I had just my shadow to worry about, but no, I had the weight of the world on my shoulders. Or the weight of Edgar Road at least.
   We stayed with Matt until he had to leave to go to the supermarket before picking the kids up. George was very entertaining, being a bit of an exhibitionist, showing Matt how he could jump onto counters and climb up the kitchen blinds— which very nearly didn’t end well. But at least he made us both laugh. It was nice to see Matt smile; now I understood why people watched funny cat videos on the internet for hours, it was better than catnip for lifting a mood. I was so pleased when we left; Matt was smiling, he looked smart and the house was spotless. Maybe he was turning a corner, and it seemed we had definitely cheered him up.
   As we left, we bumped into Tiger at the front of the house. The rain had stopped and the sun was almost shining.
   ‘Hey, guys, how are you?’ she asked, giving George a big nuzzle.
   ‘Exhausted and in need of a nap,’ I said. I really was. I also wanted time to think about my humans, but with George it was impossible.
   ‘But I want to play!’ George said. He was still far too full of energy.
   ‘Hey, Alfie, I can watch him. I’ll take him to the park or something and bring him home after?’ Tiger looked hopeful. An offer of babysitting? How could I refuse, especially as I knew Tiger would never let anything happen to George.
   ‘You’re on. Now, George, be good for Tiger and I’ll see you later.’ I nuzzled him goodbye and headed home for a well-earned rest.
   I enjoyed my nap but I didn’t relax fully while George was out. I knew he was safe with Tiger but still … He hadn’t been out without me before. When I heard the cat flap bang, I rushed to the back door. I put my head through, and saw Tiger sitting with George in front of the cat flap. I grinned; he looked so cute. Theylooked cute together, in fact: my best friend and my kitten.
   ‘Hi, Alfie,’ Tiger said.
   ‘Has he been good?’ I asked.
   ‘Good as gold. We’ve had so much fun,’ Tiger replied.
   ‘Oh, Dad, I love the park! We climbed a tree and teased a chubby dog. It was great!’ George was full of enthusiasm and I was both relieved that he was all right and thrilled to see how happy he was.
   ‘Right, come on in, it’s teatime. Thanks, Tiger, thank you so much.’
   ‘Can Tiger-Mum come home with us?’ George asked. My heart melted and I looked at Tiger and could see she felt emotional too.
   ‘I’m afraid not, she has to get home now, but you’ll see her soon. Thanks again, Tiger.’
   ‘My pleasure. Any time you need some time to yourself, I’m there,’ Tiger replied, then bade us goodbye. I stood back so George could hop through the cat flap.
   ‘I missed you,’ I said, and I really had. It was strange — I did need time to myself every now and then, but when I had it, I missed him. Was that parenthood? I guessed it must be because I was pretty sure I had heard my humans saying something similar.
   ‘Me too, Dad. What’s for tea?’
   Later that evening I lay snuggled up in the armchair, with George curled up next to me. It was dark outside; Jonathan was watching the news on TV and Claire came in to join him. I felt nervous; they had been perfectly civil to each other while Summer was around, but now she was in bed, I was unsure how the land lay.
   ‘Hi,’ Jonathan said.‘Are you OK?’
   ‘Yes, I just spoke to Tash.’ Claire sat down.‘It looks as if it’s all being sorted. I think Dave has had some kind of wake-up call. She’s not sure, but he has apologised and said he does want to be a good dad to Elijah. They’re going to meet up this weekend, with his mum, and she seems hopeful.’
   ‘She won’t take him back will she?’ Jonathan looked concerned and I sincerely hoped not.
   ‘No, I think the way he acted, cheating, moving out, not to mention the lying and the way he behaved since, means she’ll never fully trust him again, but Tash is a good mum and she wants what’s best for her child. At the moment that means having his dad around, no matter how useless he is.’
   ‘I agree, although I’m not Dave’s biggest fan. But I am Elijah’s, of course.’ Jonathan touched Claire’s arm.
   ‘Jonathan, we have our own issues to deal with, I know that, and we need to figure them out, so this weekend I want to go and see Mum and Dad with Summer, and I want you to come.’
   ‘OK, what’s brought this on?’
   ‘I’m not going to pretend. I could do with a change of scene, but also … Dad is a social worker, you know that, and he’s going to help us with the adoption — just explain how it works and what we need to do, if we decide to push forward with it. I thought it might help you to speak more to him about it.’
   ‘You mean your dad is going to talk me into it?’ Jonathan bristled.
   ‘No, I told him that I found it all a bit confusing and I explained how you felt, and he said perhaps if he talked us through the process, and all the options available to us, then maybe we’d stop arguing and come to a decision we were both happy with.’ I was proud of how reasonable Claire sounded.
   ‘Right …’ Jonathan still sounded doubtful.
   ‘Look, I know how single-minded I get, so does Dad. I wanted us to get married when we did, I wanted Summer when we did, I know how I am and, well, I think Dad is probably more likely to be on your side than mine.’
   ‘It’s not about sides, you know that. I just don’t know if I can do this.’ Jonathan sounded sad rather than angry.‘I wish I had your belief, I really do.’
   ‘And that’s what this weekend is about. Having a chat, a change of scene and then hopefully we can make a decision together. Besides, Mum and Dad are dying to see Sum.’
   ‘Blimey, you sound more reasonable than I’ve ever heard you,’ Jonathan said.
   ‘That’s my dad. He kind of gave me a bit of a talking-to. Anyway, can we go?’
   ‘What about Alfie and George?’
   ‘Frankie said they could both go and stay with them. We can drop them off on the way and either pick them up on our way home or Tomasz will drop them back here. The boys want to spend time with Alfie, and George, of course, before they go on their holiday.’
   Wow, I was going to spend the weekend with my Polish family, which was great, and George was going to have his very first weekend away. And we’d see Dustbin! I was already excited.
   ‘You’ve got it all sorted then.’ I saw Jonathan raise his eyebrows.
   ‘Sorry, I know, I’m so bossy. But you kind of knew that when you married me.’
   ‘True, I did. Look, Claire, about the adoption—’
   ‘I know you’re worried you won’t be able to love a child that you didn’t make.’
   ‘Yes, that’s it.’
   ‘But I think you can.’
   I felt a tingling in my fur. I looked at George, curled up next to me. I couldn’t love him any more than I did, yet I didn’t make him. I looked at Jonathan and Claire, who appeared to be deep in thought. I had adopted George, hadn’t I? Yes, it had been an enforced adoption at first, but still … And now I would be distraught without him; I loved him so much. I needed Jonathan to understand this. Surely that was the answer. He had to see that, if I could love George, he could love an adopted child. I just wasn’t sure how I could make him see that — at least, not yet.
   Chapter Twenty [Ea?oeiea: i_020.jpg]
   ‘Oh, Mama, look, George is playing with the sardine!’ little Tomasz exclaimed with joy. I had told George that food was not to be played with, but he loved how slippery it felt between his paws and he was chasing it around the kitchen — although of course it wasn’t alive — and pouncing onit. The boys thought it was hilarious. Aleksy was laughing so hard he couldn’t speak.
   ‘George, eat the fish, is not a toy,’ Franceska chastised, winking at me. She then grabbed it, chopped it up and put it back in his bowl. He obediently ate. We had arrived a little while ago, just after the boys had got back from school. They were excited, not only because we were staying with them but also because it was the start of the summer holidays. They were leaving next week for their holiday in Poland, which I felt sad about, but I didn’t want that to tarnish this weekend. I wanted us to have as much fun as possible.
   We ate tea and then the boys put on a film,Star Wars, which I couldn’t quite figure out, but it was quite exuberant. There were lots of flashes of colour across the screen. George jumped up onto the TV stand and tried to chase the flashes before Aleksy moved him away.
   ‘You’ll be in trouble if you break it,’ he said, echoing my thoughts. George looked at me, and I tried to give him a stern look but he just smiled that adorable smile of his. I think he was enjoying his first holiday.
   Just as the film finished, big Tomasz arrived home.
   ‘Ah, the cats, my boys, how lovely to come home to you all.’ He smiled broadly and kissed everyone, and then he kissed his wife.
   ‘Kochanie, I have bought some champagne home from the restaurant for us tonight.’
   ‘What are we celebrating?’ Franceska asked. Big Tomasz looked a bit sad, but didn’t say anything. It was yet another ‘not in front of the children’ moment.
   ‘Right, boys, bedtime,’ Franceska said.
   ‘Oh, Mum,’ Aleksy said. He sounded like an English boy now, although I knew big Tomasz and Franceska were teaching their sons Polish. ‘Can we stay up a bit, with Alfie and George?’ he begged.
   ‘Half an hour,’ she conceded. ‘Tomasz, I’ll put supper on, you spend time with the boys.’ I noticed that Franceska didn’t exactly sound happy, but I was distracted as Aleksy picked me up while both big and little Tomasz started playing ball with George. Aleksy carried me into his bedroom. As my first child friend, Aleksy and I had been through a lot together. I had been his first friend in England and I’d also helped him when he was being bullied at school a couple of years ago. He confided in me, and as he placed me on his bed I knew we were going to have a chat.
   ‘I’m worried, Alfie. Mum and Dad aren’t really speaking and now we’re going to Poland for the whole holiday without him. I’m going to miss you, and home, but I’m going to miss Dad the most.’ He looked sad as he stroked me. I snuggled into him and purred my understanding.
   ‘I’m worried we won’t come home. I mean, Mum said we will when I asked her, but what if we don’t? Or what if our parents split up like Elijah’s and my school friend Justin’s did? I love Mum and Dad, and I get we don’t see enough of Dad at the moment because he’s too busy but they have to fix it.’ He thumped his hand down on his bed and looked so sad. I really felt for him. Aleksy was ten but very sensitive and mature, I thought, a little like me. I tickled him with my tail, which normally made him laugh and then I put my paw up in a high five.‘You’ll make sure that they’re OK, won’t you, Alfie?’
   ‘Miaow.’ Of course I would. I had no idea how, but I would. I was giving Aleksy my cat promise.
   ‘I’m excited to go to Poland. I don’t really remember much about it and Tommy has no memory at all. We’ll get to see family and Mum says it’ll be really cool but I want to come home to both my parents, Alfie. I’m relying on you.’
   ‘Miaow.’ Oh goodness, I had just been given even more responsibility.
   After the boys had gone to bed, Tomasz let us out the back. He and Franceska were speaking to each other using only one word at a time, which I knew wasn’t good, and he was going back to the restaurant downstairs to quickly check everything was fine. He promised Franceska he wouldn’t be long, but she just grunted in response.
   ‘It’s dark,’ George said as he tentatively stepped into the yard.‘Yowl!’ he shrieked.‘What was that?’
   ‘Your shadow, George. Don’t worry, I’m here.’ I felt brave. After all, I’d been in this yard loads of times, and yes, it was a bit scary, and there were some nasty creatures around, but Dustbin would be here somewhere and he’d take care of us.
   ‘Yowl!’ he shrieked again. ‘What’s that?’ A figure loomed towards us.
   ‘George, that’s my friend, Dustbin.’ Dustbin emerged from behind a bin, licking his whiskers.
   ‘Nice surprise, Alfie.’ He looked at George. ‘And who’s this?’
   ‘This is George, he’s my kitten.’
   ‘I heard the boys talking about someone called George when they were down here the other day. I didn’t know you were a kitten. Nice to meet you, George.’ Dustbin’s voice softened as he spoke; even he wasn’t immune to George’s charm.
   ‘We aren’t allowed out for very long,’ I explained.‘But it’s safe, isn’t it?’
   ‘Don’t worry, Alfie, I won’t let anything happen to your lad. Will you come to see me tomorrow?’
   ‘Yes, I’ll miaow to be let out after breakfast and we can have a proper catch up.’
   ‘Looking forward to it, and getting to know the little lad a bit better too!’
   Big Tomasz came out again, leaving a big plate of food for Dustbin, before taking us back upstairs. I noticed George was still shaking.
   ‘It’s OK, Dustbin is really nice,’ I said.
   ‘I know but it was so dark and it smelled funny in the yard. Dustbin smelled funny too.’ I couldn’t argue with that. He was a little fragrant, but he had a heart of gold.
   George and I settled down in my bed in the living room as Tomasz and Franceska drank the champagne that Tomasz had brought from the restaurant, but neither of them looked as if they were enjoying it. They barely said a word, until finally they both started speaking really quickly in Polish, which meant that I couldn’t understand what they were saying. They didn’t sound very happy, I had to admit. I went to sleep worrying about them and feeling bad for Aleksy. And for myself — after all, I had promised to fix it.
   The following morning, the sun was shining brightly as George and I waited to go out into the yard. In the daylight, George felt more confident, and ran straight up to Dustbin.
   ‘MIAOW!’ he screamed, as Dustbin, taken by surprise, dropped what he had in his mouth. It was a very fat mouse, or perhaps even a rat. George jumped back, the rodent jumped towards him, and before I knew what to do, Dustbin had grabbed it and flung it out of the way.
   ‘Oh dear, that was a bit close,’ Dustbin said as I went to comfort George.
   ‘What was that?’ George asked, wide-eyed.
   ‘It was a small rat, not very nice, but my job is to keep them away from the restaurant.’
   ‘But what do they do?’ George said.
   ‘Good question. All they seem to do is eat rubbish and spread disease.’
   ‘Are they worse than dogs then?’ George asked.
   ‘Not exactly, but as bad as.’ Dustbin was very patient with him; it was gratifying to see.
   ‘But you know what, Dustbin, Dad, I wanted to leap on it, I had this feeling inside me.’
   ‘That’s your cat instinct,’ Dustbin explained.‘Cats are natural hunters, it’s in your nature and that’s why you felt that urge to do that.’
   ‘Dad, do you hunt too?’ asked George.
   Dustbin exchanged a look with me.
   ‘Well, George, I’m not so keen on hunting. There was a point in my life when I had to, and I’ll tell you all about that later, but now, well, I try not to get involved.’ I saw Dustbin smirk but he didn’t contradict me.
   ‘But I can do it?’ he asked.
   ‘Look, George, come with me and I’ll give you a lesson. But honestly, I do this as a job, it’s not something you domestic cats need to worry about too much.’
   ‘Thank you! Can I, Dad?’ he asked, looking at me hopefully.
   ‘Of course, George.’ I sat back on the doorstep as I watched my boy go hunting with Dustbin. And I have to admit he was already much better at it than me. My boy, a total natural.
   ‘So, Alfie,’ Dustbin said, when we were all sitting in the sun by the restaurant back step.‘How’s your broken heart?’
   ‘Oh, well, now you come to mention it, it’s still a bit sore.’ I gestured to George.‘He keeps me busy, which may have been Claire’s idea, but there are moments when I feel pangs of loss. I still wonder what Snowball’s doing …’ I looked wistfully at the sky, although I wasn’t sure why.
   ‘You know, I thought about it after you left last time,’ Dustbin said.‘It’s as if you give a bit of your heart to everyone you love, and sometimes they stay around and sometimes they don’t. The point is, Alfie, that you have a very big heart, with enough pieces for everyone.’ I felt emotional as he said this, thinking of those I’d loved who had taken pieces of my heart with them: Margaret, Agnes and Snowball. I knew Dustbin was right.
   ‘For such a feral cat you’re very wise,’ I said, touched and full of love for him.
   ‘That’s what friends are for.’
   ‘But I don’t understand,’ George said, looking bewildered at both of us.
   ‘You’re far too young,’ we both said at the same time.
   We had a lovely time with Dustbin and I filled him in on the lamppost cats. I did it while George was distracted, as I didn’t like talking about them in front of him. I didn’t want to scare him.
   ‘Interesting,’ Dustbin said after a while. ‘I wonder what’s going on? They can’t all have decided to leave home.’
   ‘That’s what I think. My humans have been all preoccupying me as usual with their own problems, but this is beginning to make me worry. What if the worst is right and there’s some kind of threat to all the cats in the neighbourhood? No one from Edgar Road has gone missing, but still, it seemsa bit close to home to be comfortable.’
   ‘Look, Alfie, I can ask around.’ Dustbin had this amazing network of cats who generally knew or could find out anything; they had helped me in the past.
   ‘I’d be really grateful if you could.’ I still wasn’t sure what the lamppost cat issue really was, or if I should be worried about it, but having Dustbin dig around for me wouldn’t hurt at all.
   When we went back inside, big Tomasz took the boys out for lunch so Franceska could pack. George and I followed her into her room where there were two suitcases on the bed, one big and one small.
   ‘So much easier to pack for the boys than for me,’ she sighed as she started putting clothes into the bigger case.
   ‘Miaow,’ I said, staying close to her. I followed her to her wardrobe and then, when she had an armful of clothes, back to the bed.
   ‘Where’s George?’ she asked. I looked around; he was nowhere to be seen. Oh no, not hide and seek again. I started looking round the room as Franceska put the clothes in the suitcase. Suddenly they all flew up in the air.
   ‘Ahhh!’ Franceska screamed as George jumped out from the suitcase. ‘You gave me such a fright!’ Then she started laughing. George purred with joy, and I felt relieved he was all right, although he’d made a mess. After that, he kept climbing into the suitcase as if it was a new game. In the end, Franceska shut us both in the living room, saying if she let us stay she’d never get packed before the boys got back. I told George off; although of course he had just been playing, I had hoped to spend some time with Franceska.
   ‘Right, I’m done,’ she said a while later, coming into the living room, closing the door behind her, and flopping down on the sofa. ‘Having a kitten is like having a baby, you can’t take any chances,’ she said. I purred in agreement as I jumped onto her lap. ‘I’ll miss you, Alfie. Iknow it’s only for a few weeks but it will be the longest I haven’t seen you since we met,’ she said, stroking my fur and scratching my head — which I loved. I snuggled further into her lap, hoping she would miss her husband too.‘I’ll miss Tomasz of course,’ she said, as though readingmy mind.‘But he works so much, I hardly ever see him anyway. I tell him he needs to spend more time with his family. The boys, they grow up so fast.’ I miaowed: yes, they did, all the children did, even George seemed to be growing at an alarming rate. I often found myself asking where my tiny kitten had gone.‘I guess we’ll be back before you know it but, just in case we don’t get time alone again this weekend, take care and be good.’ Franceska kissed my head. She often talked to me a lot when it was just the two of us. I liked to think I was one of her best friends — I almost had too many to count.
   ‘Mama, Mama, look what we got, a Happy Meal!’ little Tomasz ran into the living room carrying a box.‘It has a toy in it!’
   ‘You took them to McDonald’s?’ Franceska asked, sounding surprised.
   ‘Mum, we begged Dad to take us, we never get to go and all our friends do,’ Aleksy said. He looked worried — being such a sensitive child, he didn’t like arguments.
   ‘It’s fine, your dad is soft. It’s not good for you, but it won’t hurt. Tomasz, I guess it was a special treat.’
   ‘It was,kochanie, and I would have taken them wherever they wanted to go. I’m going to miss you all, you know.’ He sounded a bit down.
   ‘I know, and we’ll miss you too.’ Franceska sounded warmer towards her husband than she had done in a while. I wondered if she meant it or if it was for the boys’ sake.‘But later we eat healthy food, no more junk,’ she smiled.
   ‘Pizza?’ little Tomasz asked.
   ‘I said healthy,’ Franceska laughed.
   ‘Pizza with vegetables on it?’ Aleksy suggested, and everyone laughed.
   The rest of our weekend whizzed by. Aleksy and little Tomasz made an assault course for George, which he loved. It had tunnels, jumps, balls and toy cars, and George enjoyed being the centre of attention— which he usually was anyway — as they timed him going round it. It wasn’t without incident: at one point he got stuck in one of the tunnels, which was made out of cardboard and a bit small. But after much pushing, prodding and coaxing, he was freed at last, no worse off for his experience. Franceska was in a better mood too, and Tomasz stayed with us, which seemed to prove to me that he didn’t need to be in the restaurant all the time.
   As we said goodbye later that evening, I was sad. I would miss them all, including Dustbin, who had really helped me yet again. It was good to know he was going to try to get to the bottom of the lamppost cat mystery. Aleksy, of course, I would miss so much, but little Tomasz and Franceska too. When they all went to Poland they would each take a piece of my heart with them. I just hoped— really, truly hoped — that they would return with their pieces before too long.
   Chapter Twenty-one
   [Ea?oeiea: i_021.jpg]
   Polly was at our house when big Tomasz drove George and me home. Matt and Jonathan had gone to the pub. Matt was no further forward in his job search and Polly was worried that he might still be feeling depressed. Claire thought a trip to the pub might do both him and Jonathan some good.
   We settled the children in front of the TV. Claire said it was frowned upon to use it as an unpaid babysitter but she defied any normal mum to actually be the one who frowned on it. They were arguing about who got to cuddle George and so they all had to take turns. George didn’t mind being passed between them — as always, he quite liked the attention. Polly, Claire and I sat in the kitchen; all doors were open so we could hear the kids, but at least we could also have some grown-up time.
   ‘How are things with work and Matt? I feel I haven’t seen you in ages,’ Claire said.
   ‘That’s the job. Honestly, I do like it but I want to cut down a bit on my hours. I can’t though, we need the money and at the moment I have two big projects on, and of course everything has to be finished yesterday so I’m working most evenings. I feel I hardly see the kids and when I do, I’m so knackered I just let them watch TV.’
   ‘Like now, like me, you mean? Don’t beat yourself up, Polly — you need a break. It’s not like we’re terrible mothers, you need to cut yourself some slack.’
   ‘You’re right. Been there, done that. I know I can be tough on myself sometimes, but it’s hard not to feel guilty, you know?’ When Polly had postnatal depression with Henry, she felt she wasn’t a good mother to him and I know she still beats herself up about it, but she’s a great mum — I see it every day.
   ‘You’re enjoying your job though?’
   ‘I love it. And I love that they appreciate what I do. I know it sounds silly but I feel really proud of myself. I don’t think I could go back to not working again. But I don’t know what the future holds. I just wish Matt would get a job, not because I want to give mine up — to be honest, Ireally don’t — but because he hates being at home so much. I can’t bear how miserable he is.’
   ‘There’s nothing you can do though, is there? I mean, apart from being supportive. And he’ll find a job soon, Pol. He’s applying for them, isn’t he?’
   ‘Yes, and I’m trying to be optimistic but, well, his glass is definitely half empty at the moment. You know how happy go lucky he normally is but now he’s all doom and gloom.’ She sighed.‘Anyway, how was the weekend?’
   ‘Good and bad. Dad put it all into perspective for me. If we want a child sooner rather than later, then we need to be open to adopting an older child. The process still takes a long time, although, thanks to Dad, and the contacts he has, we are quite a way along. But as soon as we’re approved,if we’re approved, if we want a baby or a young child, then the wait begins. I think an older child would be great, they’d be at school and it would be an older sibling for Summer, like Henry, maybe, but Jonathan thinks it’d be even harder for him to love an older child than a baby.’
   ‘His argument?’
   ‘It does make sense. Well, to him it does, only because it’s the way he feels. He thinks that he loves Summer so much because we made her. He’s scared that if we adopt a child he won’t feel the same and he doesn’t want a child to live with us and feel second best.’
   ‘It’s kind of sweet, in a way,’ Polly pointed out. And I agreed. Jonathan did have a sensitive side, it was just kind of buried beneath designer suits and bluster.
   ‘Oh yes, he wouldn’t want to treat the child differently, but more importantly he wouldn’t want to feel about them differently, even if they didn’t realise it. He said it was important for him to love any child equally and if he didn’t he wouldn’t be able to live with himself.’
   ‘So what are you going to do?’ Polly asked.
   ‘We agreed to see if we got approved before we made any decisions, but to be honest, he’s freaked out a bit and let’s just say we aren’t on the best of terms right now.’
   ‘Oh God, we’re all arguing.’ Polly looked at the table.
   ‘Yes, we all are. And Tash, who is the only one of us whose relationship is actually broken, is probably doing better than we are now!’
   ‘I’m glad for her. She’s really been so strong through all this, it’s amazing.’
   ‘Yes, well, that’s the thing. I have someone I want her to meet, one of Jonathan’s colleagues, so I thought I’d arrange a dinner. Here, next Saturday night. Can you get a babysitter?’ Claire asked.
   ‘I can, but are you sure it’s wise to fix her up? It hasn’t been very long since she split up with Dave.’
   ‘No, and it might be terrible, but she’s been stuck in that flat since she moved in, she only sees us and she needs a confidence boost. It might end in tears but, on the bright side, they’ll probably be mine.’ Claire laughed and Polly smiled at her.
   ‘OK, I think you’re mad but I’ll come. I mean we’ll come. What does Jonathan think?’
   ‘That I’m too bossy for my own good! But I think he loves me for that in a weird kind of way.’
   ‘And Tash?’ Polly drummed a manicured finger on the table.‘Surely she has a say?’
   ‘Well, she’s not exactly jumping at the idea but she eventually agreed with me that a night out with some company and food would do her good.’
   ‘So you wore her down too?’
   ‘I absolutely did.’ Claire grinned and gave Polly’s arm a squeeze.‘We’ll work things out, our little gang, we always do.’
   ‘Miaow!’ I jumped onto the table. Thank goodness, some positivity at last, although I knew that I would be the one to sort it out in reality.
   ‘Mummy, Mummy! Summer won’t let me have my turn with George.’ Martha appeared at the door looking cross.
   ‘Come on,’ said Claire.‘Let’s go and sort this out.’ The two women smiled as they went into the living room. It seemed there was only so much the TV could do.
   Jonathan came back from the pub quite late. Claire had waited up and so had I. George was sleeping next to me, snoring softly. I loved hearing the sounds he made while sleeping— I could watch him for hours. Well, until I fell asleep anyway.
   ‘Hi, Jon, how was your night?’ Claire asked as he kissed her.
   ‘Good. I did try to come home ages ago but Matt wouldn’t let me,’ Jonathan said.
   ‘That’s OK. Was he all right though?’
   ‘Not really, but I think he’ll be fine, he just needs time. Right, I’ve got a really busy day ahead of me tomorrow so I’d better get some sleep.’ Without waiting for Claire to respond he left to go upstairs. Claire looked a bit sad as she cleaned up the kitchen before following him.
   ‘George,’ I said, nudging him gently. I did think about leaving him to sleep here but I wanted my bed. He opened one eye and looked at me.‘Bedtime.’
   ‘Dad?’ he said, stretching his little legs out.
   ‘Yes?’
   ‘Why is everyone so unhappy?’
   ‘What do you mean?’ I asked, but I felt a quiver in my fur; had my boy picked up on the tension?
   ‘I had a lovely weekend, but it was clear that Franceska and Tomasz were sad, then Polly looked a bit miserable and Claire talked about them all falling apart. Tash as well. I only just met these people but what happens if they don’t get better?’ He sounded so sad, and although my heart was breaking for him, I was also incredibly proud. He was learning to be a very perceptive little cat: a chip off the old block, as Jonathan would say.
   ‘George, please don’t worry, we are going to fix this, both of us. My job is often to help my families, and you’re right, now they need us more than ever, but we’ll figure it out. Trust me.’
   ‘I do trust you, Dad,’ George said as he got up and made his way to bed.
   Snuggled up next to little George, I began fretting. I had now promised both Aleksy and George that everything would be all right, but I had no idea where to start. There were often hurdles to get over but this time there seemed to be so many. One thing my families had in common was that they did love each other, and I knew they wouldn’t ever fall properly apart, but I could also see they needed help. Urgently. Yet again my to-do list had grown.
   I also had to deal with my own heartbreak— although that had been pushed far down the list — George, who needed guidance and a lot of taking care of, as well as all my humans, or the adults anyway. At least the children seemed to be all right. Although Aleksy knew something was amiss with his parents, so how long would it be until allof the children were affected by the less-than-congenial atmospheres in their respective homes? Children, just like kittens, did pick up on things, even the little ones. So, I had the children to protect, the adults to sort out and I had promised George and Aleksy we were going to find a way to do it soon.
   I tried to sleep but my brain was whirring.
   Franceska was going to be so far away, so how on earth could I get big Tomasz to see that working these long hours for his family was making him risk them all? How could I get Polly and Matt to see that although they had a role reversal, and it wasn’t perfect for either of them, they could make it work? And Claire and Jonathan, well, they worried me most of all in a way. They were so far apart, despite Claire’s dad trying to talk some sense into both of them. Jonathan still thought he couldn’t love someone he didn’t make but that was crazy — look at the way I felt about George. Even if he were biologically mine, I couldn’t love him any more than I already did. So why couldn’t Jonathan see that? Why couldn’t Claire point it out to him? Yet again, it all came down to me. I had a heavy burden on my little cat shoulders and a long, hard road ahead to ensure everyone was happy. And on top of that, there was the mystery of the lamppost cats to solve. If there was something sinister going on, we needed to get to the bottom of it. And quickly.
   My whiskers ached at the thought of how I was going to do it, but somehow, do it I would.
   Chapter Twenty-two [Ea?oeiea: i_022.jpg]
   Franceska had gone and Tomasz had been round to have a beer with Jonathan and see us. He seemed very lost without her. Matt was no closer to getting a job and he was feeling useless. Polly was settling into a routine now; she was juggling the job and the children quite well, I thought, but she still didn’t talk to Matt properly about work because she was afraid how he would react. Claire and Jonathan had had lots of meetings with a social worker and were told that they would hear if they were approved for adoption soon. This seemed to create an even bigger gulf between them and they were still very distant with each other. I heard all of this, and yet I still had no idea what to do.
   Tonight, Tash was coming over for dinner with all of them and one of Jonathan’s friends or colleagues I hadn’t met, and I was hoping the dinner might give me some inspiration. When little George kept asking if things were going to get better, I kept fobbing him off, saying that soon they would and that I was working on it. But really I had no idea.
   ‘Tiger, this is different,’ I said.
   ‘It’s always different, Alfie. Remember what you’ve done so far — you’ve been in more scrapes than I can count, from getting yourself stuck up trees to almost being killed. Don’t you think that now, with George to think about, you’d be better off keeping out of it and letting the humans sort themselves out?’ Tiger made a good point but she wasn’t going to deter me. That wasn’t the sort of cat I was.
   ‘The reason I’m doing this isfor George. Well, for him and all the children. The adults need to see what they’re in danger of losing. It seems to be only when I put myself in danger that I manage to bring people together, you know that.’
   ‘Yes, but what are you going to do this time? Set fire to yourself? There’s only so much danger you can get away with and I think you’ve probably reached your limit.’ Tiger looked stern.
   She had a point. I had been through a lot in my life and perhaps there wasn’t much more I could do. How many more of my nine lives could I afford to lose? I might have to come up with a less dangerous way of fixing things.
   ‘OK, look, I know you’re right, so I’ll give it some time, and maybe, just maybe, they’ll all sort themselves out. But if they don’t … then we’ll have to come up with a plan.’
   ‘Deal,’ Tiger said. ‘But what about the missing cats?’ She knew me too well.
   ‘I’ve asked Dustbin to ask around about them. I’m still hoping it’s just something weird rather than something serious. But all we can do on that one is wait and see.’
   ‘Mew, mew, mew.’ I looked up to see George clinging to a branch by his front paws.
   ‘I tried to catch a bird,’ he said,‘but now I’m going to fall.’
   Oh my goodness, my poor little boy.‘Just stay where you are, George, I’m coming,’ I shouted, starting to panic. Tiger shot me a look.
   ‘It’s OK,’ she said calmly,‘George, you can jump from there. Look it’s grass here, and if you let go, you’ll land on your legs.’ George looked at us uncertainly and I realised that, actually, Tiger was right — he wasn’t far from the ground. I must learn not to panic so much.
   ‘Tiger’s right, George, you’ll be fine and we’re right here.’ Eventually George let go and landed on all fours.
   ‘Wow, that was fun, can I do it again?’ he asked, giggling.
   ‘Another day,’ Tiger and I said in unison. I smiled at her and she grinned back; we were getting good at this parenting lark, I thought, as a flash of affection for Tiger flooded me. But I couldn’t think about that, I had bigger fish to fry.
   Talking of fish, a little while later, George and I made our way home to eat our supper of sardines. I told him to make sure he bathed thoroughly: we had company coming so we both needed to look our best. Claire looked very pretty as she started to cook the food that she’d prepared earlier in the day. She was wearing a dress and high heels and her hair was swept back off her face. She had put on some make-up but still looked natural. She hummed to herself while she worked. I heard Jonathan upstairs. He was bathing Summer and getting her ready for bed, and seemedin a slightly better mood as he laughed with his daughter. We heard splashes and shrieks of joy coming from her. I was always excited when we had friends coming round. Being a sociable cat, I enjoyed people, and I also guessed that no one would argue tonight, because they tended not to in public. Sowe were in for a nice, harmonious evening with friends and I for one felt it was just what the vet ordered.
   Tash arrived first. She was wearing jeans, a sparkly top and heels. George jumped up at her, and she scooped him into her arms after handing a bottle of wine to Claire.
   ‘Easy, George,’ she said, smiling. He was mesmerised by her top. It was like lots of tiny mirrors and I knew he was trying hard to look at his reflection in it! She petted him before carefully putting him down and accepting a glass of wine from Claire.
   ‘Are you OK?’
   ‘I’m nervous. Not only because of tonight and you trying to set me up with some bloke I’ve never met, but because Elijah’s withhim.’
   ‘I know, honey, but he’s also with Dave’s mum.’ The stipulation to an overnight visit had been that it had to be at his mum’s house, because Tash seemed to think that Dave would expose Elijah to danger if his mum wasn’t there. I didn’t know much about it but the situation seemed to begood for Dave’s mum, who adored her only grandchild.
   ‘I know, thank God for Pat. Poor woman feels so guilty on her son’s behalf but I keep telling her that it’s important she feels she can see Elijah whenever she wants. Anyway, I need to stop being so silly about it.’
   ‘And as for tonight, it’s just dinner with friends. Yes, there happens to be a single man you’ve never met coming but what’s the worst that can happen?’
   ‘I get drunk and make a fool of myself?’
   ‘Tash, you don’t do that, it’s more likely to be me, now sit down and relax.’
   I went to sit on Tash’s lap, and as she stroked me I could feel her calming down. I purred ‘you’re welcome’ to her as she smiled at me. Jonathan entered the kitchen. He looked very handsome in his jeans and a clean, pressed shirt.
   ‘Hi, Tasha,’ he said, kissing her cheek. He then kissed Claire before grabbing a beer from the fridge and hovering. ‘Can I do anything, darling?’ he asked.
   ‘No, it’s all under control.’ And it was, but then Claire was pretty organised when it came to things like this. The table was set with candles and cutlery, but it wasn’t too cluttered; wine glasses gleamed and the food smelled delicious, although I could tell there was no fish.
   ‘So, tell me about this guy,’ Tash said.‘I know I’m supposedly not being set up, but I certainly feel like I am!’
   ‘Tash, you are being set up, my beautiful wife knows what she’s doing!’ Jonathan laughed. I saw Claire smile, which was rare lately, but tonight was a great example of how united they could actually be. ‘Anyway, Max is forty-four, divorced, one child who’s at university — so he started young by the way — and he was married for twenty years. No big drama, he and his wife just drifted apart apparently.’
   ‘And he works with you?’
   ‘Yes, he trades the same stocks as me. Good job, nice guy and actually quite fun, although he does like to play golf but I try not to hold that against him.’ I didn’t know what golf was but Jonathan was a strictly football guy, and whether he watched it at home or in the pub it always involved beer. Maybe golf was like that?
   ‘He sounds great, but I’m just not sure how I feel about dating again, it might be too soon,’ Tash said.
   ‘Oh, nonsense,’ Claire cut in.‘I’m not saying marry the guy, but it doesn’t hurt to meet new people and maybe even have the odd date. After all, a girl’s got to eat.’
   ‘Anyway, aren’t you ladies forgetting something? Tash might not fancy him,’ Jonathan teased.
   ‘Oh, she will, he’s really good-looking,’ Claire said. Jonathan shot her a look of mock hurt.
   George was grinning as I joined him on a soft chair in the corner of the dining area. I knew what he was thinking, that it was lovely to see everyone laughing and relaxed for once. We were interrupted by the doorbell, and as George and I settled down to watch the evening’s events unfold, I began to feel positive. Maybe Tiger was right and everything would sort itself out after all?
   Well, Claire turned out to be right. Max was very good-looking: he was tall, with greying hair, and he had a lovely smile. I immediately liked him as he made a huge fuss of both me and George. I could see that Tash was quite taken with him too, she kept blushing and twiddling with her hair. Polly and Matt were on good form, and were even being affectionate to each other. They were usually the most touchy-feely of my couples, always holding hands or hugging or doing that kissing that you see in films, but lately they hadn’t been doing that so much. So to see them back to their old selves was heart-warming. They weren’t doing film kissing but Polly kept putting her hand on Matt’s arm and he had his hand on her leg when he wasn’t holding a fork. There was more laughter and fun than we’d had in a long time and I think, for George, ever in the time he’d lived with us.
   I couldn’t help marvelling that even though he’d only been with us for such a short time, I almost couldn’t remember life without him. I hadn’t forgotten my time with Snowball, but it was as if George belonged in my life more than anyone or anything else ever had. The time before him felt like it had happened to a different cat. Did that sound crazy?
   ‘So, Claire, we have to go to this dinner with my bosses next week, can you babysit?’ Polly asked.
   ‘Sure, what night? I’d be happy to if Jon can stay home.’
   ‘Thursday.’
   ‘No problem,’ Jonathan said.
   ‘It’ll be funny, Polly often had to endure dinners when I was working, but now I’m the spouse who has to charm her bosses. Not sure I’ll be as good at it as she was,’ Matt said, but he didn’t sound bitter.
   ‘They’ll love you, but I agree it will be odd. Gosh, over the years I’ve been to so many of these corporate dinners with you.’
   ‘I know, and you’ve always dazzled. Never mind, I’ll just have to do my best,’ said Matt, kissing her cheek.
   ‘Well, you are charming all the school mums I used to hang out with,’ Polly teased.
   ‘Charming?’ Matt replied, ‘I spend most of my time running the gauntlet so I don’t get cornered by them. Not only are they scary but they keep wanting me to join them for skinny lattes and Pilates.’ Matt laughed and everyone else joined in.
   ‘What do you do, Matt?’ Max asked. I held my breath.
   ‘At the moment, nothing. Well not nothing, I’m a househusband. I worked for a digital design agency, which went belly-up. And despite numerous applications there aren’t any posts senior enough for me at the moment.’
   ‘Oh God, you’ll have to take up Pilates, mate,’ Jonathan teased.
   George had fallen asleep beside me, but I was concentrating on the conversation. It seemed that Max’s brother co-owned a company like the one Matt used to work for, and Matt had heard of it. And although Max didn’t know if he had any vacancies, he said he’d be happy to ask. Matt seemed very pleased and I thought about what a small world it could be. As Tash flirted, Claire and Jonathan looked happy and Matt and Polly were affectionate; I wondered if they would sort everything out without my help. For once. With that lovely thought swimming around my head, I fell asleep.
   I woke as Tash and Polly came to say goodbye to us. George didn’t stir, but I decided to follow them out, just to make sure that everything was all right. I don’t think anyone noticed as I went out the front door, they were all so effervescent and excited. As I stood by our gate, I saw Matt and Polly head off in one direction holding hands, which made me feel warm in my fur. Then Max offered to walk Tash home before getting into the taxi that was waiting for him. I hung back slightly as Max spoke to the driver and then he and Tash set off the short walk to her flat, the opposite way to Matt and Polly.
   ‘I know things are raw but I had fun tonight. So if you fancy going to dinner sometime …’ I heard Max say. I decided I really liked him: not only was he handsome, he was kind.
   ‘I would like that,’ Tash said. She could barely keep the smile from her face and she looked so pretty in the moonlight. Max stopped and pulled out his phone as Tash gave him her number. Satisfied, I made my way home.
   I went to jump through the cat flap.
   ‘Yowl!’ I flew backwards. Yet again, I had forgotten that the cat flap was still locked at night. When would I learn? I panicked slightly; what if I was locked out for the night? What if George woke and I wasn’t there? I jumped on to the kitchen windowsill and was relieved to find myself looking at Jonathan. He was holding a glass and seemed to be staring at the sink.
   ‘Miaow!’ I shouted as loudly as I could, tapping the glass with my sore head.
   ‘What the?’ Jonathan jumped and dropped the glass. I ran to the back door. ‘You gave me the fright of my life, Alfie!’ Jonathan shouted. I walked past, giving him my sternest look. Take away your freedom and then see how you feel, I wanted to say, but of course I couldn’t, being a cat.
   Chapter Twenty-three
   [Ea?oeiea: i_023.jpg]
   Vic and Heather had called a neighbourhood watch meeting. I watched through our living room window as people crammed into their house. Polly and Claire went; Polly said that Matt was so down she didn’t think he’d survive it, so Claire offered to go with her in solidarity. Tash couldn’t go as she had to look after Elijah and to everyone’s amusement she was actually a little disappointed. But as they told her, there would be plenty more meetings to attend in the future. But despite the joking, I knew the nature of the meeting might help me so I was disappointed that I couldn’t go either.
   I felt a little sad as I watched Polly, still in her work suit, and Claire, wearing jeans and a jumper, walk through the Goodwins’ door. All I could do was settle down with Jonathan and wait for Claire to come home. Summer was in bed, George was asleep on the armchair and Jonathan and I sat side by side on the sofa watching the news. There was no mention of any cats on it as far as I could see, so I didn’t think that this lamppost cat thing had reached epic proportions yet, but still I found it troubling. Despite the increase in posters, none of our cat friends had gone missing, so it didn’t make sense. I still hadn’t heard from Dustbin, and I wondered if Edgar Road was somehow protected from whatever was goingon. But then just whatwas going on? Anyway, I was sure they would be discussing it at the meeting, so I would hear about it later.
   Jonathan fell asleep on the sofa at some point, as he often did, snoring a bit and dribbling sometimes, but then when he woke up denied he had been asleep at all. Glancing at George, who was also fast asleep, I went to stretch my legs in the garden. As I slid through the cat flap I was surprised to see Tiger by my back step. Her fur glinted in the moonlight, and she looked very serious.
   ‘What are you doing here?’ I asked.
   ‘Thank goodness you’re here, I thought I’d have to risk coming in.’
   ‘Tiger, I’ve told you before, I’m sure Claire and Jonathan wouldn’t mind!’ Jonathan would probably huff and puff a bit but actually he’d be all right. Besides, he was snoring away just now anyway.
   ‘I’ve been waiting for ages and getting cold, but I had to come and see you.’ Tiger’s eyes shone with fear.
   ‘What is it, Tiger?’
   ‘The lamppost cats, it is serious after all.’
   ‘Ah, I worried it was. That’s why the Goodwins called their meeting.’
   ‘Yes, it is. My owners were fussing, telling me to be careful, saying they might have to stop me from going out! Anyway that’s not the worst bit. There was a new poster tonight and it’s …’
   ‘Come on, Tiger, spit it out.’ Tiger often got a bit flustered when she was upset. I tried to be patient but it wasn’t one of my strong points.
   ‘Pinkie! It’s Pinkie on the poster.’
   ‘Are we sure she isn’t just in a fridge somewhere?’ I asked, but I had a bad feeling.
   ‘She’s missing, Alfie. Her poster is on a lamppost. So finally, after all our musing about whether this was a proper problem, someone we know has gone missing, an Edgar Road cat. It’s time we stopped burying our heads in the sand. I think that something bad is going on and you know I’m not a dramatic cat. But I can’t just sit by and watch our friends go missing.’ I had never seen Tiger this agitated before.
   ‘Calm down, Tiger. Right, let’s think this through. Pinkie wouldn’t just leave home — she liked her owner.’
   ‘Exactly. She really was happy there.’
   ‘OK, so you’re right, something is going on. I need to think about this, and I need to go and see Dustbin again. I mentioned it to him before but with Franceska and the kids in Poland I haven’t seen him since. I need to go there but what will I do with George? It’s too far for him to walk.’
   ‘How about I look after George and you go. I’d go with you but one of us needs to take care of the kitten.’
   ‘OK. And don’t worry, Tiger. Alfie is on the case.’
   ‘Oh, Alfie, I just don’t want anything bad to happen to any of us.’
   ‘Hey,’ I said, with all the confidence I could muster,‘I won’t let it.’
   I went back inside, legs shaking. I was more troubled by this latest development than I cared to admit. It had hit home now and no longer could we ignore the problem. Jonathan decided he was too tired to wait up, so I took George to bed, and although I tried to stay awake, sleep claimed me. I was asleep before Claire came back.
   At breakfast, I was delighted that Claire discussed the meeting with Jonathan.
   ‘I know they are quite mad but it does seem there are a spate of cats going missing. The Goodwins have done a spreadsheet and everything. And you know, Jon, it’s more than is comfortable, even for London.’
   ‘You’re kidding?’ Jonathan said through a mouthful of toast. ‘What’s a spreadsheet going to do?’ Trust Jonathan to focus on that.
   ‘Well they have charted where the cats went missing and it does seem to be a triangle of streets around us. They’ve also got all the owners together and everyone is searching. Jon, you have to admit that it’s too many now for it to be cats running away or getting run over.’ As Claire lookedworried, I thought of poor Pinkie. ‘And for once the Goodwins are actually being helpful, not just interfering.’
   ‘Yeah, they have got a point. But what are they going to do?’
   ‘They’ve asked us all to search around the area, look out for anything suspicious and most of all keep our cats safe.’
   Jonathan looked at her.‘You don’t think anyone would take Alfie or George do you?’ Finally he sounded as if he was taking it seriously.‘Has anyone spoken to the police?’
   ‘Yes, but I don’t think missing cats are their top priority, and the point is that if we can get to the bottom of it soon then they won’t get the chance to take our cats. We were all wondering if we should keep them inside.’
   ‘But Claire, Alfie would hate that. Look, maybe we use that as a last resort.’
   ‘Well, this better get sorted, Jon, or we’ll have no alternative.’
   ‘Right, I’ll call Matt and after work we can go and do a bit of a search.’
   It didn’t sound like much of a plan but at least it was something. I really didn’t want to be locked in the house — how would I help the lamppost cats or my families then?
   ‘George, stop that and come here,’ Claire shouted. She had been cleaning up after Jonathan left for work and George had taken the opportunity to play. Having recently discovered the cupboard where the plastic supermarket bags were kept, he had decided they were his favourite things. He had climbed into one now and was sliding all over the kitchen floor. Summer was chasing him and giggling, but Claire was cross.
   ‘It’s dangerous,’ she shouted. I knew it wasn’t, there were holes in the bag and he could definitely breathe, I wasn’t that neglectful a parent. Finally Claire caught him and removed him from the bag. ‘When Jonathan gets home I am getting him to childproof that cupboard, George. No morebags for you.’ George looked distraught. I made a mental note to tell him how much fun boxes could be later on. Claire looked flustered as she put George down on the floor and went to get Summer dressed. She was going out with Tash for the day with the kids, as they both had a day off work. Tash had had a date with the lovely Max last night so Claire wanted to hear all about it. I did too, but disappointingly I couldn’t go with them, although it did mean I could go and see Dustbin, with Tiger kitten-sitting for me.
   ‘I wish we could go out with them,’ George said.
   ‘Well, they won’t let us. It would mean stowing away in Summer’s pushchair or something,’ I mused as I strolled towards the living room, where I could watch the world go by through the window.
   ‘Bye, Alfie, bye George,’ Claire shouted later. I lay down on the sofa and thought about having a nap, before I suddenly sat up with a start. Something was wrong. I wasn’t sure what, or if I was imagining it, but something didn’t feel right. I went to find George. I searched the house, but couldn’t see him. I sighed, it was tiring but he kept playing hide and seek without telling me, which was beyond annoying. So I looked for him in all the places that he normally hid, but there was no sign of the mischievous little kitten. Once I was certain he wasn’t in the house, I went out. Hemight have snuck out while I was in the living room. Honestly, what kind of parent was I? I searched the garden, but he wasn’t there so, trying not to panic, I went to find Tiger. Thankfully she was in her front garden.
   ‘What do you mean “gone”?’ Tiger asked.
   ‘Claire went out and I can’t find him anywhere.’ Oh, this was so worrying. I felt a bolt of real fear as I thought of the lamppost cats. My George!
   ‘Are you sure you looked everywhere?’ asked Tiger. She looked panicked too.
   ‘Yes, of course, I checked and double-checked. You haven’t seen him?’ I was frantic.
   ‘No, Alfie, if he went out he didn’t come this way. Let’s check the park, he loves the park.’ Tiger was staying calm, something I was finding difficult. I felt an emotion I had never felt before: total fear. I was always a bit panicked when he was hiding, but in the house I was a little more confident. However, outside … anything could happen to him.
   ‘I told him never to go out without me!’ I knew I shouldn’t have taken my eyes off him, but then I didn’t expect him to be so irresponsible. Hadn’t I warned him about going out on his own? Of course I had — time and time again.
   Tiger and I were silent as we made our way to the park as quickly as possible. I had never felt fear like this before. He was still so young, and didn’t even really know how to cross roads on his own. There were dangers everywhere and I had taught him so much, but still, it wasn’t enough.
   He wasn’t there.
   I collapsed back at my house. I wanted to cry, my back legs ached from all the running and I still hadn’t found my boy. I couldn’t help but yowl.
   ‘Look, you wait here, Alfie, and I’ll go and see if the others have seen him.’ Tiger was distraught but was trying her best to hide it.
   ‘Tiger, I don’t know what I’d do without you.’
   ‘I’ll be quick,’ she said, and bounded off. I lay in the front garden and said a prayer to the god of cats to bring my boy home safely. We had checked the park, every tree, bush and flowerbed, anywhere he could possibly hide, but there was no sign. Where on earth could he be? I promised if hewas brought back safely to me I would never take my eyes off him again, not for a minute. How could I have been so irresponsible?
   It felt like ages before Tiger came back. She looked downcast.
   ‘No sign. Oh goodness, now I’m beginning to really worry. Although if he had come outside, someone would have seen him. It doesn’t make sense,’ she said, and I had to agree with her. ‘Not even Salmon, and he’s been watching for ages. He said he saw Claire leave with the pushchair but nothing else. The other cats are all looking for him right now.’
   ‘What could have happened? It’s as if he’s just disappeared into thin air. What if the lamppost cats are something really bad and someone’s taken him?’ I was feeling so hysterical that I didn’t think I could breathe anymore.‘I can’t bear the idea that someone could have taken my boy.’
   ‘Oh, Alfie, I don’t know what to say—’ She stopped suddenly. ‘Look.’ I turned and saw Claire and Tash approaching. Claire was pushing Summer in her pushchair, and Elijah was walking next to them, holding his mum’s hand. I was flooded with relief as I saw, sitting bold as brass on Summer’s lap, George. I tried to slow my breathing down to a normal level as they approached us but my heart was still beating out of my chest.
   ‘Oh, Alfie, were you looking for George?’ Claire said as they reached us.‘The naughty little kitten stowed away in the pushchair, in my bag.’ She lifted George out.‘We were on our way to soft play but of course we couldn’t take him in. Now, George, stay here. We have to go back before the kids get mutinous.’ She shook her head, gave me a pat and left.
   When they’d gone, Tiger and I exchanged a glance.
   ‘Don’t ever do that to me again,’ I said crossly. I had never felt so cross and yet so relieved in my life.
   ‘Why?’
   ‘We were worried sick,’ Tiger added.‘George, you can’t just go with humans, and if you do then you need to tell Alfie.’
   ‘Why?’
   ‘Because we were worried and we love you, but at the moment I am very cross with you. What were you thinking?’ I didn’t want to scare him by telling him about the lamppost cats — he was too little for that — but he needed to be aware of the dangers. Parenting wasn’t as easy as it looked.
   ‘You said you’d like to go to hear about Tash and that man. And by the way, she had a lovely time, he took her to something called French restaurant, they drank something called champagne and they had a great evening, and they are going to see each other again but they’ve both agreed to take it slowly. Tash doesn’t know if she’s ready but actually she admitted she really did enjoy herself,’ said George.
   As much as I liked hearing this, I was still angry and scared. Although I was delighted for Tash, and it was brilliant that George had listened so well, I wasn’t going to tell him that.
   ‘I know I said I wanted to go but I also said that we couldn’t go. We just can’t go anywhere we fancy it, no matter how much we want to.’ I once stowed away in a bag and went all the way to the seaside with my families but I wasn’t going to tell George about that.‘It’s dangerous, it’s reckless and your mum and I were worried sick. Now you will go inside and stay there, and think about your behaviour,’ I said crossly.
   ‘But I’m sorry,’ George said, trying to look cute.
   ‘No, George, you need to be punished. Come on, inside now and never, ever go anywhere without telling me again.’
   I hustled him round the back, with Tiger following us. As I told George to get through the cat flap, Tiger hung back.
   ‘I’m so relieved,’ Tiger said. ‘The feelings I had when he was missing were awful.’
   ‘I know, it was horrific, I really can’t begin to tell you.’
   ‘I think I understand. I love him too, you know.’
   ‘I know we’re his parents, and just like with my families, I’ve seen how parents worry and I totally understand it now. I worry enough about all my humans, but even that isn’t the same as the way I feel about George,’ I tried to explain.
   ‘Because he’s your kitten,’ Tiger said.‘Anyway, I’d better go and let the others know he’s safe, they’re probably still looking for him.’
   ‘Great. And Tiger …’
   ‘Yes?’
   ‘He’s not my kitten, he’sour kitten.’
   Tiger nuzzled me and left. I went inside to deal with our kitten feeling an odd cocktail of emotions.
   George behaved impeccably for the rest of the day. He didn’t go near anything he shouldn’t and he asked me before he did anything. I wished he could always be this good, although of course I’d probably miss his mischievous side just a tiny bit. When Summer came home, she grabbed George and took him upstairs to play dress up. After having to wear bonnets, scarfs and dolly dresses, I think he’d been punished enough. However, the idea that he could really go missing haunted me. I needed to get to the bottom of the cat mystery sooner rather than later.
   Chapter Twenty-four [Ea?oeiea: i_024.jpg]
   I knew I couldn’t wait any longer. That morning, after delivering George into Tiger’s care, I set off to see Dustbin. She was such a good mum, and I felt lucky to have her. Glancing back, I saw the two of them looking after me and I felt a pang in my heart. I needed to do this for all my friends, but especially Tiger and George. I went as fast as my legs would carry me, knowing the way and knowing what dangers to look out for — usually just cars and maybe the odd dog. I took the back route into Dustbin’s yard without too much trouble, feeling pleased with myself for making such quick time.
   ‘Hi, Alfie,’ Dustbin said.‘This is a pleasant surprise.’
   ‘Well, Dustbin, you might not feel that way when I tell you why I’m here.’ I filled him in on the latest developments.‘So it seems the lamppost cats might actually be more of a problem than we first thought. God forbid any more cats are in danger.’
   ‘Right, Alfie, sounds like we need to sort this out before it gets out of hand. I’ll go this afternoon and talk to my colleagues again and we’ll ramp up the urgency. I’m sure that between us we can get some information. In the meantime, you stay vigilant and let me know of any developments as soon as you can.’
   ‘I think I’ll set up a network here, so that when I can’t get to you I can send Tiger or something. I really do need to keep a close eye on George, I shudder to think anything might happen to him.’
   ‘Right, well, it might take a bit of time, but I’m on the case and I’ll come and find you if I have any news.’
   ‘But do you know where I live?’
   ‘Yes, I was interested once so I followed Tomasz.’ I raised my whiskers.
   ‘OK, so maybe I was being a bit nosey. I fancied seeing where you lived. I miss the boys by the way.’
   ‘Me too. I wish they’d come home. And I wish all the missing cats would get to go back to their homes too. Oh, Dustbin, I wish the lampposts were just lampposts again.’ My eyes were full of worry, but Dustbin, more than anyone, reassured me.
   Life has a funny way of turning round in circles; time passes, things change. One minute everyone’s sad, then they’re happy, and then, well, where do I start?
   Tash was over at ours when I got back from seeing Dustbin, gushing about Max, who she’d been on another date with. I couldn’t believe how happy she seemed. She’d come to realise that perhaps she had fallen out of love with Dave before he left her, without realising it, and although she was cautious, she was beginning to see that she deserved happiness. And as Claire said to her, you didn’t know when it would come along so you had to snatch it when you could. Also, because Max was a father himself, he understood her need to put Elijah first. I felt very hopeful although I did worry she would get hurt again. But I was a cat who worried about things, that was just what Idid.
   ‘Anyway,’ Tash said,‘he’s great, puts no pressure on me at all. But you know, whatever happens, he’s made me see that I tried so hard to make the relationship with Dave work, whilst he did nothing. If I’m honest, I think having Elijah was my last-ditch attempt to save us. I don’t think I realised it at the time, but it does make sense.’
   ‘I had no idea,’ Claire said.
   ‘He was just so lazy. Anyway, I put up with him for so long and I really believed I loved him. Well, I did love him, but actually, he’s not worth it,’ said Tash as she watched Elijah eat his sandwich at the kitchen table. Summer was sitting opposite him, pulling her sandwich apart and dropping bits on the floor, where George was waiting, hoping it might be something he liked. Luckily for him, it was grated cheese. George loved cheese.
   ‘Summer, eat that — don’t drop it,’ Claire said, sounding exasperated. ‘Well, sometimes you lose something and you realise how much you miss it, and other times you lose something and realise that actually it wasn’t right in the first place.’
   ‘Was that what it was like with your first husband?’ Tash asked. I had never met Claire’s first husband. She moved here after they divorced and she was sad then.
   ‘He was a control freak and then, remember, I moved on to Joe who was the same only worse. I think with Dave, you were together so long you were used to him, you know, he was part of your life, you might not have seen that you weren’t actually happy.’
   ‘I think you’re right. But did you see it?’
   ‘Honestly? No. I mean I never really got to know him that well, and Jonathan was never overly keen, but then Jon’s ambitious and he doesn’t understand men who don’t have ambition.’
   ‘Dave didn’t, did he? I thought he was laid back but I didn’t realise how lazy he was. I worked twice as hard as him, I found the house, I did pretty much everything. Anyway, enough about me, what’s going on with you? Elijah, do you want some fruit?’ I marvelled at the way parents managedto have conversations but always seemed to remember what they needed to do for their children. I needed to learn that skill with George. Elijah nodded, and Claire handed Tash a banana.
   ‘Look,’ Claire said. She took an envelope out from behind the toaster and handed it to Tash.
   ‘What’s this?’ Tash took the letter out and read it.
   ‘But, Claire, that’s fantastic, you’ve been approved!’ Tash jumped up and hugged Claire.
   ‘Yes, we’ve been given the green light for adopting and the social worker said that if we’re willing to take an older child it won’t take as long. But, well, I haven’t told Jonathan yet.’
   ‘When did you get this letter?’ Tash asked.
   ‘Last week. I know it’s silly, but I want this more than anything, I don’t know how I’d feel if Jonathan said no.’
   ‘And you’re sure about taking care of an older child?’ Tash looked concerned, as did I.
   ‘Yes. Tash, I’m doing this for the right reasons and I’ve thought long and hard about that. I want Summer to have a sibling, and I want to add to our family. A baby isn’t realistic. We’re a bit older now and the waiting list is so long, Summer would probably be at university before we even got a baby.’ Claire looked thoughtful. I thought she was being optimistic: Summer at university? She was so bossy she’d probably be kicked out of school long before then.‘Anyway, we have a lovely home and a lot of love here, so any child would be welcome. And I hate to think of any kid not having a loving family, I really believe that this child needs us and we need them.’
   ‘That’s lovely, Claire.’
   ‘But the thing is that Jon is scared and I can’t seem to get through to him, so I just don’t know what to do.’
   I jumped onto the kitchen table. I wanted to tell Claire that if she was a bit more supportive as to how Jonathan felt, and told she him understood, yet explained why they would be such great parents to any child, then he would come round. But how could I convey that? It seemed that she was on her road and he was on his and they didn’t seem to be going to the same place. I nudged Tash.
   ‘Claire, tell him you understand,’ she said, as if reading my mind.‘Do it gently.’
   ‘I railroad people, don’t I?’ Claire asked.
   ‘You do make up your mind and then go for it, which is great, and a real asset in so many ways and why we all love you, but in this case, maybe try a more gentle approach?’
   ‘I’ll try but I can’t promise. In my head I’m already decorating the spare room for him.’
   ‘It’s a boy?’
   ‘It would be a boy, yes, I just feel it.’ Claire laughed.‘I see what you mean.’
   I tried not to despair. She knew what to do but, being Claire, she wasn’t sure she could do it. I wanted another child here. I could see the value for all of us, and with the way I felt about George, I knew that adoption was a great, positive thing, but Claire needed to convince Jonathan, not tell him, and that was where I worried. If they couldn’t agree on this, then what would happen to them?
   Tash took Elijah home for a nap, and as Claire took Summer upstairs for hers, George and I went out. None of the cats seemed to be around so after playing with some leaves and chasing a fly we decided to go and see if Matt was in. I missed Polly on days like this, she and I hung out together quite a lot before she got her job, but I loved Matt too— it was just that these days he wasn’t quite as much fun.
   George and I headed through the cat flap and into Polly and Matt’s house. Imagine my surprise when we went to the living room and saw big Tomasz sitting in the armchair with Matt on the sofa. It had been ages since I’d seen Tomasz — since the rest of the family had gone on holiday — so I jumped up onto his lap and snuggled in. George sat at Matt’s feet.
   ‘Ah, our friends the cats,’ Tomasz said, making a fuss of me. I purred happily, it was so lovely to see him. ‘I know, I miss you too, Alfie,’ he said.‘And of course my wife and children.’
   ‘Jeez, Tom, it feels like they’ve been gone for ages, although I know it hasn’t been that long,’ Matt said, which I agreed with.‘When are they back?’
   ‘Another two weeks, before school starts. I asked her to come home sooner but Franceska says they’re having a lovely time and anyway I’d only be working.’
   ‘Tom, you know, me being at home this way, not the way I’d choose, by the way, has taught me something. I see more of my children than ever and they do something different, something new, every day. I love that. I spent so long worrying about losing my job and the fact I was no longer the “man” of the house, but actually, when I think about it, I really enjoy spending more time with the kids. I’ve made myself a promise that if, or when, I get another job, I’ll always make sure I spend enough time with them.’ George hopped onto Matt’s lap and licked his face. Which was very clever of him because I would have done the same had I not been busy being stroked by Tomasz.
   ‘I know you’re right, but the business … We have two restaurants now. And I do this for my family, you know.’
   ‘Yes, and you’re brilliant — look how successful you’ve become. But mate, you have managers, you need to delegate, take more time off. There’s no point in doing this for your family if you don’t see them.’ I couldn’t have put it better myself. Matt had come a long way since learninghow to load the dishwasher.
   ‘I know, you’re right. And since they’ve been gone I’ve missed them like crazy, I just need them to come home so I can let them know.’
   No, I felt a tingling in my fur. Tomasz was wrong, he didn’t need them to come home, he needed to go and get them. He needed to go to Poland. But how did I tell him that? I looked at Matt, willing him to have the same idea.
   ‘Changing the subject, I’ve got a meeting. Long story but the brother of one of Jon’s colleagues has a design agency. He’s got some work, it’s freelance, not a permanent role, but it’s a good company and if I get it I might be able to be more flexible, so Polly can keep working if she wants to, and I can still do more with the children.’
   ‘Have you spoken to Polly about it?’
   Matt shook his head.‘We’re not communicating very well right now either.’
   ‘When did our lives get so complicated?’ Tomasz asked. I didn’t know the answer to that. It was complicated, and I couldn’t help but feel a little exasperated that neither man seemed to know what to do about the situation.
   Chapter Twenty-five
   [Ea?oeiea: i_025.jpg]
   ‘So what you’re saying is you need yet another plan?’ Tiger said, sighing. We were all crouched under a bush in the park: me, Tiger and George. George was making a pile of leaves to nestle into and his nose was covered in mud. He looked very sweet.
   ‘Basically, yes. I tried to leave them to sort it out but to no avail. The thing is, it has to be a big plan,’ I pointed out.‘The biggest plan of my life.’
   ‘What are you hoping to achieve?’ she asked.
   ‘Well, I want Tomasz to go to Poland to get his family back. I want Claire and Jonathan to work together on this adoption, not both on different paths. I want Matt and Polly to talk again, to be as close as they normally are and to agree on how they can both work with jobs and the children. Oh, and I want Tash to feel more confident about having a new relationship because my cat instinct tells me Max could be wonderful both for her and Elijah. Although out of everyone, Tash actually seems the happiest right now. And of course I want to get all the lamppost cats back with their owners, including Pinkie.’
   ‘Is that all?’ I could detect sarcasm in Tiger’s voice. She could be one sarcastic cat.
   ‘I know it’s a lot but hey, there’s a lot to do at the moment.’
   ‘But how are you going to do it? Where do we even start? I mean, nearly getting yourself killed or being stuck up a tree won’t achieve all that,’ she said, referring to my previous plans.
   ‘I know, and I’m also aware I only have so many lives left, so let’s not risk them.’
   ‘But Dad,’ George piped up. ‘How can you make Tomasz go to Poland?’
   ‘I don’t know. What I need to do is find a common thread.’ I started thinking. Thinking made me hungry. It wasn’t lunchtime but I could hear the gentle rumble of my stomach, and then I saw a butterfly, which I decided to jump for. I missed, of course, and landed in a flowerbed. I rolled offand Tiger laughed.
   ‘Right, well Dustbin is on board with the cat problems but for all the others I want us to have a good think. We’ll meet tomorrow to see if we’re any closer to a grand plan.’ George looked confused, Tiger amused. As I brushed a petal off my head, I tried to muster all the dignity I had left.
   As George and I walked home, we saw Tash approaching.
   ‘Hello, boys,’ she said. George rubbed up against her legs. She scooped him up, holding him so tightly he began to wriggle.
   ‘Sorry, my little angel, hope I didn’t squeeze too tight.’ George purred in response; he was such a flirt. Then I saw her eyes were red. Although we were still in the street, I rubbed against her legs. ‘Oh, Alfie, I’m so confused,’ she said. She slumped down on someone’s front wall, still holding George. I jumped up next to her.
   ‘Miaow?’
   ‘It’s Max. I really like him, but I’m so afraid, and I’ve been arguing with Dave about Elijah and money.’
   ‘Yowl,’ I said, to show my disapproval of Dave.
   ‘I know, I know, he’s such an idiot. But Max … Well, he’s lovely, but I told him I needed to take some time out from us. I just don’t know if I can do it, a relationship, it’s too confusing.’
   I was cross. Not because of Tash— I understood how she was feeling. After all, I still couldn’t even contemplate replacing Snowball, but then she wasn’t an idiot like Dave. I needed Tash to remember that thing about snatching happiness whenever you could. As I tried to comfort her, along with George, who was being so affectionate, I remembered that when I got Claire and Jonathan together, after Claire had had a disastrous relationship with a man — I couldn’t bring myself to say his name — Claire had said it was too soon for her to think about dating Jonathan, and Tash had pointed out that if she lost a good man like Jonathan because of a bad man likehim, then she’d regret it. Where were her wise words when it came to herself?
   ‘Miaow!’ Give yourself the chance to be happy, I tried to say, but she didn’t seem to be listening.
   That night, yet again, I couldn’t sleep. I was wide awake, wracking my brain for a plan. George was fast asleep, thankfully, but I could hear voices coming from Claire and Jonathan’s room. I moved closer to the door to listen.
   ‘Just shut up, Jon, you’re being really mean,’ I heard Claire shout. Her voice wobbled and she sounded close to tears.
   ‘No, I’m not. But, Claire, this is the truth, you wanted the truth, I don’t think I can love a child who isn’t mine, especially an older one. They will already have a personality, probably come from a terrible background and will need extra-special care. It’s not about whether I want to do it or not, it’s that I simply don’t feel I can. How many times can I tell you that I don’t think I can do this!’ He sounded particularly angry.
   ‘I think you can. I think we can. This isn’t about just you, Jonathan, this is about us as a family.’
   ‘A family which at the moment seems close to falling apart,’ Jonathan hissed.
   ‘So now you’re threatening me?’
   ‘No, Claire, I’m trying to tell you how I feel but you can’t seem accept it, or even have a rational discussion about it.’
   ‘No, I can’t, because the man I love wouldn’t threaten me.’ Jonathan made a frustrated noise and then went quiet. I watched from the shadows as the door opened and Claire went into the spare room, where once again she cried herself to sleep.
   Chapter Twenty-six
   [Ea?oeiea: i_026.jpg]
   ‘We are now in a state of emergency,’ I announced the next day, having gathered all my cat friends at our usual spot. I needed the whole gang. I felt a little bit like I was commanding an army as I strode backwards and forwards, although they weren’t exactly standing to attention. Elvis was lying on his back, enjoying the sun; Tiger sat with George lying between her paws, looking very sweet; Rocky and Nellie were sitting together; and Tinkerbell was cleaning the back of his legs in a move that would make most yoga enthusiasts jealous. Only Pinkie was absent, which was a stark reminder of one of the reasons we were here.
   ‘Oh, that sounds very incredibly serious,’ Nellie said excitedly. She loved drama.
   ‘Not only do we need to find those missing cats, but I also need help with all my humans.’
   ‘Right, Alfie, so what do you want us to do?’ Elvis asked.
   ‘Firstly, the cats. We are all feeling under stress now that Pinkie is gone. I mean, we don’t know who or what this threat is and when it might come for any one of us.’ I glanced at George, who thankfully was being nuzzled by Tiger and didn’t seem to be listening.
   ‘I heard that in some places they eat cats,’ Nellie said. We all shuddered.
   ‘Don’t be ridiculous,’ Rocky said, but he looked terrified. ‘No one would eat a cat.’
   ‘What could be happening to all these cats though?’ Elvis said.
   ‘I have no idea, but listen, my pal Dustbin is on the case for us so I think our best course of action is to wait until we hear back from him. If anyone can find out anything it’s him. But then I also have the other issues and I need you to help me come up with a big idea. A grand plan.’ I explained the problems with all my families to them, leaving no stone unturned.
   ‘When my family wanted to go overseas they went to a travel agent,’ Rocky said, not very helpfully.
   ‘I don’t think that’s the issue,’ I pointed out.‘I know I can’t literally make Tomasz go to Poland to get his family but I need to make him realise that that’s what he needs to do.’
   ‘Oh, I think I understand,’ Tinkerbell said.‘You need to do something to make all your families understand how much they love and need each other.’
   Thank goodness.‘Yes! Exactly!’ Tinkerbell was suddenly my new favourite cat. I was glad that he had become a regular part of our gang. I shot a look at Tiger but she was gazing lovingly at George. Oh blimey, everyone was so obsessed with that kitten, me included. ‘Tiger, can you drag yourself away from George for long enough to pay attention?’ I snapped.
   ‘That’s it!’ Rocky said.
   ‘What?’ I asked. Tiger looked up.
   ‘The boy. Everyone is besotted with the boy, so use him in your plan.’ Rocky looked pleased with himself.
   ‘Everyone loves me,’ George said.
   ‘Um, George, it’s important you don’t become too big-headed,’ I said.
   ‘Well, we all know who he takes after,’ said Tiger. The others laughed; I did not.
   ‘But anyway, he’s got something there,’ said Elvis. ‘For example, you could put the kitten in danger and then the humans will all come together to save him, or something.’
   ‘You can’t put him in danger!’ Nellie snapped. George looked scared and hid behind Tiger.
   ‘No, of course you can’t. I didn’t mean literally, but if they think he is,’ said Elvis.‘Look, we need to try to find the lamppost cats, but what I was thinking was that if your families thought George was one of them, then they would put their problems aside and all get on with it.’
   ‘Make them think that George has been taken like one of the lamppost cats?’ I felt my brain whirring. ‘You might be right, Elvis. Remember when I was very ill at the vet, it brought all my families together — Claire and Jonathan even fell in love and the others all became friends because ofme.’
   ‘Yes, but you absolutely can’t put him in danger,’ Tiger said. ‘Not like you do with yourself.’
   I felt an idea hatching, and my whiskers and fur tingled with excitement.‘What if we just pretend he’s missing?’ I asked.
   ‘How do we do that?’ Tiger asked.
   ‘Well, Tiger, I’m not completely sure yet but let’s say we find somewhere to hide him, and you go with him. He’ll be safe because you’re taking care of him, but everyone else will think he’s lost.’
   ‘How long? You couldn’t do it for too long, it wouldn’t be fair,’ Tiger pointed out.
   ‘Yes, that’s true,’ I agreed. ‘Not too long, I mean, he was only missing for a short time the other day and I was terrified, but he has to be lost for just enough time to trouble them all and get them talking.’
   ‘Ohhh,’ said Nellie.‘Then we can all look for him.’ We all turned our eyes on Nellie.
   ‘He’s not actually going to be lost, so we won’t have to look for him,’ Tiger said scathingly.
   ‘Oh, I see,’ Nellie said, but she didn’t look as if she did.
   ‘Isn’t it mean? To make people worry?’ Tinkerbell asked, looking uncertain.
   ‘Not in the long run. We need something drastic to make them realise that they love each other. If we hide George, they’ll all look for him and talk properly, and then when we find George alive and well they’ll be so relieved and happy that they’ll sort out their problems. It’s foolproof.’ Well, I hoped it was.
   ‘Are you sure about this?’ Tiger sounded dubious.
   ‘No, but have you got any better ideas?’
   ‘Other than me kidnapping George, making everyone sick with worry before he’s found, and then bringing them all back together again? No, not really.’
   ‘You aren’t really kidnapping him,’ I pointed out.
   ‘You know what I mean. Look, Alfie, think about this for a while. They’ll be really worried, and Tinkerbell’s right, it does seem mean. If they’re already upset they don’t need any more stress.’
   ‘I know, but these humans need a wake-up call, they’re all forgetting about what’s important. Yes, it’s awful that they’ll worry, but it won’t be for too long. We’ve been here before: if they have something else to focus on they begin to see how much they really love each other. It’s the way humans work. I don’t think we have a choice, Tiger, we have to do this. And in the meantime, Dustbin is going to get to the bottom of the real lamppost cats, I just know he is.’ I felt excited; I knew this was going to work out. I just knew it.
   ‘On your paws be it,’ Tiger snorted. ‘But yes, before you ask, of course I’ll help you, it goes without saying. And I’d be happy to keep George safe for a while, although we need to work out the logistics. Where will we go? What will he eat? How do I keep him warm?’
   ‘We’ll all help you, Alfie,’ Nellie said.‘It brings us together too, doesn’t it, these plans of yours?’ I was relieved, Nellie had finally got it.
   ‘See, Tiger,’ I said.‘I know what I’m doing.’ I couldn’t help but feel a little bit smug. It made sense. Everyone chasing after a lost George would make them all see how much they needed each other, and then they’d talk, really talk, to each other. Matt and Polly, Claire and Jonathan,and then Tomasz would realise he had to go to Poland to get his family, and Tash would see how important love was and would give Max a chance. I know it seemed I was always chasing a happy ending for everyone I loved, and I was, but there was nothing wrong with that. It’s just what any loving catwould do.
   Chapter Twenty-seven [Ea?oeiea: i_027.jpg]
   I was busy working out the finer points of my plan; I was still not one hundred per cent sure of all the details. Though my idea for getting my humans together was not dangerous, it was logistically complicated, and that was keeping me occupied. I also had a visit from Dustbin, who, true to his word, had his cat network— some feral like him, others domestic — all working on the mystery of the lamppost cats.
   He caught my attention while I was looking out of the front window. I ran round the back and we met in the garden.
   ‘Any news?’ I asked.
   ‘It is a problem. Some cats’ owners are so worried they won’t let them go out. It’s causing havoc among local cats. I think your street is the last street to be hit by whatever’s going on.’
   ‘So no one knows?’
   ‘Not yet, but a very good friend of mine — Mr B, the cleverest cat I know — is on the case and he’s going to come and see me tonight. Just try to relax, keep an eye on your kitten and hopefully I’ll have news. I’ll try to come at the same time tomorrow, look out for me. I’d better go,it’s time for my lunch and I have to see off those pesky rodents too.’
   I said goodbye and went back to the house to worry. While the plan for my families wasn’t dangerous, we didn’t know what we were dealing with with the lamppost cats. There was so much piled up on my plate at the moment and it seemed to be mounting up.
   And George was getting into more and more trouble, which was threatening to distract me from the task at hand. He was becoming quite a paw-full. The other day, he had played with Jonathan’s favourite work tie and it looked a bit worse for wear when he’d finished with it. Jonathan was really angry, and of course somehow he blamed Claire and me. Claire told him he should focus on what was important, which just made him madder. They weren’t really talking to each other by the end of the day and George was still unsure what he’d done wrong. I tried to explain but actually I was trying to focus my energy on the bigger picture. I remember one of my families saying that with children you had to pick your battles. Stealing Jonathan’s tie didn’t really warrant too much of my attention — after all, he had loads more. Claire was right: Jonathan needed to worry about what was important and it wasn’t a silly tie. Although George hid from Jonathan for a while afterwards, I did tell him, yet again, that Jonathan was prone to flying off the handle but he usually calmed down quite quickly. I was used to him getting cross with me but quickly thawing anyway.
   And then one morning George had noticed that Claire was eating smoked salmon for breakfast, so while her back was turned he jumped onto the table and actually ate from her plate. Jonathan found this funny but Claire, who was a bit keen on everything being clean and not having cats on the table while they were eating, didn’t. This time she was cross; she put George on the floor and gave him a long lecture on hygiene, which I know he didn’t listen to, because I got bored halfway through and he had an even shorter attention span than me. After that I had taken him to Matt and Polly’s so we could lie low for a bit.
   Matt had been getting ready to go to a meeting with his potential new employer. They would be discussing something called‘terms’ and he was stressed because he still hadn’t really discussed it with Polly yet. He kept putting it off because he wasn’t sure how they would cope with both of them working or something. As he blustered on, in quite an unlike Matt kind of way, George, who was growing and as a result was going through a clumsy phase, got under Matt’s feet, causing him to trip up and bash his elbow. As a result he became even more flustered. I had decided to take George to the park in the end, hopeful that no trouble would follow us. Thankfully it didn’t.
   Later that day I had found George scaling the curtains in the spare room, gleeful about discovering that he could climb them. However, he got almost to the top and then realised he didn’t know how to let go. He had started to panic and I had to coax him down. It took a lot of time and effort, his claws were stuck firmly into the material, and when he was finally persuaded to let go — one paw at a time — I noticed he had made quite a few little rips. I hoped no one would notice and I told George that we should give the spare room a wide berth for a bit, just in case.
   And this morning, George had knocked a cereal box off the kitchen counter, pouring the contents all over the floor. He had then climbed into the empty box and started running around the kitchen. Summer was laughing and Claire was shouting while Jonathan shrieked,‘We should be filming this for YouTube, we’d at least make enough money to buy more cereal out of the blooming kitten.’ Of course it was left to me to get him out of the cereal box. Although he’d been covered in cornflake dust, he was so adorable when he was happy, it was almost impossible for me to be cross with him.
   Thankfully, or not, everyone else was too cross with each other to really tell us off. I mean, I know I hadn’t done anything wrong, but I was responsible for George, so I could have been given a bit of a ticking off too — like I had with the tie incident.
   With Dustbin working on the lamppost cats, I was focusing on my plan for my families. I decided to go and round up our cat friends to finalise the details for my grand plan. Poor George didn’t really understand, it was a lot for a kitten to take in, even though he was getting bigger, but I remained patient as I explained that he was going to be the most important cat in solving everyone’s problems, which he quite liked the sound of. And every way I had looked at it there was absolutely no danger involved at all. If Tiger wouldn’t let anything happen to me, she absolutely would never let anything happen to our George.
   I was just about to start the meeting when a large shadow loomed.
   ‘What are you up to?’ Salmon asked, approaching us. Oh no, this was the last thing I needed. He couldn’t get wind of any plan; if he did, he might sabotage us.
   ‘Well,’ George said, before anyone could stop him, ‘I am going to save the whole wide world.’ Bless him, he had interpreted the plan in a slightly different way.
   ‘What are you talking about?’ Salmon asked, in a kindly way, but I knew he was looking for gossip in that salacious way of his. Tiger gently put her paw over George’s mouth and motioned for him to be quiet.
   ‘It’s just a game we’re playing, Salmon,’ I said, trying to sound friendly.‘Nothing for you to be concerned about.’
   ‘You guys are always here, plotting things,’ he spat back. So much for friendliness.
   ‘Well, that’s not true, most of the time we’re napping, sunbathing and playing with leaves,’ said Rocky.
   ‘And just hanging out. With friends. You should try it sometime,’ Elvis said.‘If you have any friends, that is.’
   ‘As if I have time for such frivolities. Honestly, if I was like you then this street would go to wrack and ruin. Well, carry on with your silly game, I have more important matters to attend to.’ He turned and stalked off.
   ‘What was he talking about and why did you put your paw over my mouth?’ George asked.
   ‘I’ll teach you about him later,’ I said. ‘But right now we have to finalise our plan. Right, Rocky, you go first.’
   As each of my friends gave their ideas, I listened to them all. It seemed they had all thought carefully about it and had done a pretty good job. I beamed with happiness; it was all going to be so straightforward, the easiest of my plans but also the most important.
   D-Day was set for tomorrow, Saturday. It had to happen then, because everyone would be home from work. So today was the only day we had to get it right. But I was confident; we were all working together and we had left no stone unturned. I was one hundred per cent sure that nothing could go wrong.
   ‘My idea,’ Nellie said. I almost didn’t want to hear, she could be a bit silly sometimes. ‘My idea is that you use the shed at the bottom of Tiger’s garden.’
   We all looked at her. Our sticking point had been where we could hide George. After all, Tiger couldn’t take him to her house, her humans doted on her but they weren’t keen on other cats. I had been chased out of there a few times and I’m not only charming, but Tiger’s best friend too. But Nellie had come up with a genius idea. Tiger’s shed was quite tatty, and had a gap in the door theycould easily slip through. And her humans didn’t use it, ever.
   ‘That isn’t a bad idea,’ Tiger admitted grudgingly.‘So what do we need? Food, something to keep us warm and comfortable, water, something to play with?’
   ‘You’re only going to be there for a few hours, not the whole summer,’ Rocky pointed out.
   ‘But we can get enough food for George, a blanket and yes, he will need a source of water,’ I said.
   ‘I can sneak him into my house for food and water,’ Tiger said.‘Because how on earth are we supposed to get food and bowls and stuff into the shed?’
   ‘Good point. So you sneak him in when it’s safe. They always give you too much food anyway, so you’ll have plenty for George.’ It was true, Tiger was totally overfed — she had to exercise a lot to keep the weight off.
   ‘I’ll drag a blanket down there for you,’ Elvis offered.‘We have loads at home and I am the strongest cat here.’
   ‘That’s debatable,’ said Tinkerbell. I wasn’t sure which of them was right but I knew I wouldn’t like to fight with either of them.
   ‘Why don’t you both get the blanket, it’ll be easier with two of you,’ Tiger sensibly suggested. They looked at each other and nodded. I liked how everyone was working together.
   ‘What about toys? I don’t want George to get bored,’ Tiger said.
   ‘We can bring some from home,’ I said, although I wasn’t sure how we would carry them. ‘Right, we need to get this settled because we’re going to do this tomorrow.’ My voice shook with nerves.
   ‘Alfie, it’s fine, we have planned this brilliantly, what on earth could go wrong?’ Nellie asked.
   I didn’t answer. In my experience those sounded like famous last words.
   Later I quietly ran through the plan with my little boy again. He still didn’t understand fully but he was super excited about being a hero, which of course is what I had convinced him he would be if everything went the way I hoped. But I had to say, I was more nervous about this plan than I had been about my others. Not because of any danger — this was the least dangerous plan I had ever come up with — but because so much was at stake.
   Walking back from our planning meeting, we’d popped in to Matt and Polly’s. Polly had taken an afternoon off because Martha had to go to the doctor, and Polly wanted to be with her. I thought that was a good sign, but I quickly realised things weren’t good. George had run off to play with Henry and Martha in the living room, while I listened to Polly and Matt arguing in the kitchen.
   ‘Well, yes, I agree we should be celebrating you having got a new job, but you seem to have forgotten that I’m working now and we have two children.’
   ‘I haven’t forgotten, but I don’t know what you want. Do you want to keep working?’
   ‘Yes, I do. I was dubious at first but I did the interior design course so that I could go back to work at some point and now I love my job. I’ve cut my hours lately, now I know what I’m doing a bit better, and I feel I’ve got the balance right. And now that it’s all sorted, you want me to give it up!’ Polly wasn’t shouting but I could tell she was angry.
   ‘I didn’t say that, but what are we going to do about the kids? I mean, yes, Henry’s at school, but the days aren’t long enough and Martha is only at pre-school three days a week.’ Matt sounded frazzled.
   ‘It’s not like either of our jobs are permanent. I know I’m on a rolling contract but yours is six months and then we might be back to square one,’ Polly ranted.
   ‘Thanks for the optimism.’
   ‘Oh God, I can’t talk to you when you’re like this, I’m going to see my children,’ said Polly, storming out of the room.
   I went to get George and told him it was time to go home. Before we left, I made a fuss of Henry and Martha. I worried for those two lovely children.
   Claire was sitting at the kitchen table, crying, when we got home. I looked at George, who seemed very sad. This day was not going well. I was wondering where Summer was just as Jonathan walked into the kitchen.
   ‘Claire, please don’t cry,’ Jonathan said, sitting down next to her.
   ‘I asked Tash to give Sum tea so we could talk, yet we’re not talking.’
   ‘I don’t know what to say, Claire.’
   ‘I want this child,’ she said.
   ‘There is no child, not yet.’
   ‘You know what I mean.’ Claire had tears streaming down her face and I felt so sad for her.
   ‘I do, but I don’t know what you want from me.’
   ‘Yes, Jonathan, you know exactly what I want from you.’ So much was unsaid between them, but they both knew what they meant.
   ‘Look, I’m going to the gym and then I said I’d pop in to see Tomasz at the restaurant.’
   ‘Right, that’s more important than this?’ Claire snapped.
   ‘No, but I made plans and I’m sticking to them. Tomasz is really struggling without his family. Besides, we’re not getting anywhere right now.’
   ‘Oh, just go then,’ Claire screamed at him. I had never heard her so angry.
   By the time Tash brought Summer home, Claire had stopped crying, and she also had a glass of wine in her hand.
   ‘Can I tempt you?’ she asked Tash. Her eyes were red and Tash hurriedly took Summer and Elijah into the living room with some of Summer’s toys.
   ‘OK, just a quick one. My boy’s tired tonight.’
   ‘Nursery wears them out. Oh, Tash, sorry. I’ve had another row with Jonathan.’
   ‘I thought so. Come on, sit down.’ They both sat down and as George again went to play with the children, I stayed with the adults.
   ‘I’m not going to bore you with the details, it’s nothing new anyway. Distract me, tell me about your budding romance.’
   ‘Ah, well you might regret asking that. I’ve asked Max for some space. He wasn’t being anything but charming and wonderful, but I freaked out when we were last out.’
   ‘Why, Tash?’
   ‘I’m falling for him, Claire, and I got scared. I’m not sure I can cope with being hurt again.’
   ‘Oh, Tash, look at us both. Two great men and we’re pushing them away.’ Claire’s eyes filled with tears again.
   ‘I know, that’s exactly what we seem to be doing,’ Tasha said sadly.
   It seemed that tomorrow couldn’t come quickly enough, and we only had one chance to get it right. There was so very much resting on our plan. I hoped and prayed with all my heart that we got it right.
   Chapter Twenty-eight
   [Ea?oeiea: i_028.jpg]
   I was yet again facing a sleepless night. I was so worried about tomorrow. George slept soundly at least, which was good. Despite the lack of danger involved in this plan, I was still worried that George would be spending his first night away from me, and although he’d be with Tiger — she had promised to sleep in the shed overnight with him — I wouldn’t feel comfortable without him. I knew that I would feel as if something was missing, being apart from him. But at least I would be busy. I would have to rally all my families to look for George and make sure they bonded over it. I did have quite a big part to play in the plan — the biggest, in fact. All George and Tiger had to do was lay low, I actually had to mobilise the humans and somehow ensure that they actually came together over this, rather than falling apart. I had to admit that I was a ball of nerves: from the tips of my claws to the ends of my whiskers, I felt like jelly.
   Oh, life was so hard and so complicated. It was a lot to cope with. Not just for me either. As I watched my kitten sleeping, I hoped that I could protect him from the worst that life had to offer, but failing that, I hoped that I could at least equip him to deal with it. Being a parent was just so fretful, and I didn’t think that I would ever stop fretting about George.
   I must have drifted off, because I woke with George tickling my nose with his whiskers.
   ‘Dad, it’s the day!’ he squealed.
   ‘Shush,’ I said. ‘Let’s not draw too much attention to ourselves. We need to go before the others wake up.’
   George was an early riser, waking at dawn most days, so our plan was that we would leave the house, I’d deliver him to Tiger and then come back to bed. I’d pretend to be asleep and when everyone else woke up they would find me alone in the bed. I could make lots of noise to show them I was worried and then our search would begin. Part one of the plan was simple.
   I made George drink some water before we left. There was no food as Claire still didn’t leave food down for us overnight, but hopefully Tiger would get him into her house for breakfast. We then left, as quietly as we could. I walked George to Tiger’s house and we stood by her back door. I pushed the cat flap to let Tiger know we were there.
   ‘Good luck, my little boy,’ I said, feeling affectionate, emotional and a little bit terrified all at once.
   ‘Thanks, Dad, and don’t leave me too long.’
   I nuzzled up to him.‘I won’t, but you know Tiger will be there for you. There’s nothing to worry about. But, George, listen, it’s important that you do what you’re told. Do you understand?’
   ‘Yes.’ He looked serious. I hoped Tiger had woken up. She had said she would get up when the birds started singing. After a short while, she appeared.
   ‘Here we are,’ I said, shaking.
   ‘It’s OK, Alfie, it’ll be fine, and I’ll take it from here. Right, George, wait there, I have to go and make sure the coast is clear — my family are early risers — and then I’ll come back and sneak you in for breakfast. I’ll be really quick,’ Tiger said.
   ‘Do you understand, George?’ I asked. He looked a bit like he hadn’t been listening as he stared at the emerging sun and then a bird flying overhead. Tiger disappeared round the back of her house.
   ‘Yes, of course. Wait. Breakfast.’
   ‘Right, I have to go. Remember, do whatever Tiger says.’ I touched my nose to his and then, before I got more emotional, I left to go home. George would wait, Tiger would be right out and then the plan would begin to unfurl.
   ‘I’ll listen to Tiger-Mum,’ were his parting words for me. I felt so proud.
   I rushed home and luckily made it back to my bed before anyone in the house woke up. Because I was so tired, before I knew it I’d actually fallen asleep.
   ‘Where’s George?’ I woke up to see Claire and Summer standing over my basket. I looked around and then yawned.
   ‘Miaow?’ I said.
   ‘Jon, Jon,’ I heard Claire shout. She then went into the bedroom. A sleeping Jonathan emerged.
   ‘Alfie, is George downstairs?’ he asked me, rubbing his eyes.
   ‘MIAOW!’ I don’t know, I tried to tell them.
   ‘Oh God.’ Claire practically flew downstairs and Jonathan picked Summer up and followed her. I went after them. Of course, after looking everywhere we didn’t find him.
   ‘I told you it was too soon to leave the cat flap open at night,’ Claire snapped.
   ‘Um, Claire, everyone said it was OK and anyway, Alfie nearly got locked out the other night. I mean, you can’t keep them in forever.’
   ‘Oh, Alfie, why did you let him out of your sight!’ Claire stormed back upstairs to check again.
   So at the moment she was blaming Jonathan and me— a bit unfair, but it was early days and it was early in the morning. Neither of them had had coffee and that said a lot. I normally avoided them in this state.
   I stood by the back door and made a lot of noise. While Jonathan strapped Summer into her highchair, made coffee and gave Summer a drink of milk, Claire could be heard slamming doors upstairs.
   ‘He’s definitely not up there,’ Claire said, coming back into the kitchen. ‘Jonathan, where on earth is he? He’s never out without Alfie and he’s always here first thing in the morning.’ She had searched the whole house by now and of course found nothing.
   ‘Look, darling.’ Jonathan gave her a hug.‘You sort Summer out and I’ll throw on my tracksuit and go out and look.’
   ‘Can you get Matt to help you?’ Claire asked.
   ‘Of course, don’t worry.’ He kissed her and I felt a little tiny moment of triumph. See, it was working already.
   I went out with Jonathan, and followed him to Matt’s house. Luckily they were already up and dressed and Matt came straight out when he heard what had happened.
   ‘Oh God,’ Polly said as she came to the front door.‘Let me know what I can do. I’d go to yours, Jon, but then George might come here, so maybe I should stay?’
   ‘Babe, I think you should stay put. I’ve got my mobile so we’ll keep in touch.’ Matt kissed Polly and she hugged him tightly.‘I’m sure he’s fine, you know what kittens are like, they get into all sorts of trouble.’
   As the guys decided to go and check the street, I followed them. But I heard a hiss by Tiger’s front gate and I turned to see her, trying to get my attention. I waited until the men were at a safe distance.
   ‘Tiger, it’s working already!’ I exclaimed.
   ‘But where’s George?’ Tiger asked.
   ‘What do you mean?’
   ‘Well, I told you I’d check the coast was clear at home, but when I came back out, George was gone. I looked everywhere and couldn’t find him, so I assumed there’d been a change of plan and he was with you.’ Tiger sounded slightly panicked.
   ‘You mean he’s not with you?’ I felt fear bubble up in the pit of my stomach.
   ‘No, he wasn’t there when I came out of the house, nowhere to be seen. So I assumed he was still with you and the plan had somehow changed! I was literally gone for a flap of a butterfly wing!’
   ‘Oh God, Tiger, no. I left him on the doorstep so I could get home before everyone woke up, and that was the last I saw of him. I thought he was with you! I told him to wait and he said he understood.’ Now I sounded hysterical.
   ‘Right, OK, let’s stay calm. He’s definitely not in my house, so shall we check yours?’
   ‘We can pop back there but Claire’s there and she checked everywhere.’ I was finding it hard to catch my breath.‘When I got home, I went straight to bed. I dropped off, but it wasn’t for long, and that’s all I can tell you.’
   ‘So George really is missing?’
   ‘Oh no, my boy is missing!’ It dawned on me. ‘Jonathan and Matt are looking for him and now we’re going to have toreally look for him.’ I felt terrified; I couldn’t quite comprehend what had happened.
   ‘Oh no, Alfie, this plan has gone wrong before it’s even started.’
   ‘And I never even saw it coming.’
   As we quickly ran to my house to see if he’d gone home, I felt increasingly worried — but also a bit angry with George. I had explicitly told him to wait for Tiger, he had only been left alone for a matter of minutes, and he knew not to go off. But I was angrier with myself. I should have waited with him, or told Tiger to risk taking him into her house. We had specifically chosen the back of the house in case there was a lamppost cat snatcher — after all, they wouldn’t have known George was there would they? Unless they’d been watching us. No, it couldn’t be that, that made no sense.
   Oh goodness, all he’d had to do was stand there, why couldn’t he have done that? Where could he be? I felt as if my mind was running round in those circles George was so fond of. Oh, little George. I tried to breathe calmly, despite feeling as though my life was spiralling out of control. I wanted my boy back!
   He wasn’t back at ours and I heard Claire on the phone to Tash. She sounded as upset as me. The plan was so simple, but it had fallen apart from the moment it started and I only had myself to blame.
   ‘Alfie,’ Tiger said, as we checked every inch of our back garden. ‘Beating yourself up really isn’t helpful. We need to think about this. Let’s round up all the cats and get them to spread out. We need to check his favourite places.’
   ‘He’s not at our house, if he was at Polly’s we’d know and Tash is looking out for him. So the park, or the end of the street? But then if he goes there the other cats will see him …’ I couldn’t think of anywhere else.
   ‘Right, I think you need to stay central and also keep an eye on the humans, and I’ll keep checking my house, because he might remember he’s supposed to be there. How does that sound?’
   ‘I have no better ideas. I wish I did.’ I felt like lying down and yowling but then that wouldn’t find my boy, would it?
   ‘Look, come with me to find the others and you can help me organise them. Oh, Alfie, we have to find him, where on earth could he have gone? Why did I take my eyes off him?’ Tiger seemed to feel the same as me.
   ‘I just don’t know where he’d have gone. And, Tiger, it’s not your fault — you had to check the coast was clear. I mean, I know I keep saying it, but he was supposed to sit on the step and wait for you! Why didn’t he do that? I was sure he understood.’
   ‘I didn’t take long, Alfie, I promise I just ran in, checked downstairs and was out again.’
   ‘I know. I mean it, Tiger, it’s not your fault. I should have waited with him.’
   ‘But then you might not have been home before your family woke up and that was a crucial part of the plan.’
   ‘OK, let’s stop going round in circles and just find him then.’ I turned to run off and saw Dustbin appear. I’d never been so pleased to see him.
   ‘Oh, thank goodness you’re here. George is missing,’ I said.
   ‘What? Not the lad?’
   ‘Yes.’ I explained the plan to Dustbin.‘It was still dark when I left him in Tiger’s back garden. Oh, what have we done? What if I’ve lost him for good?’ I yowled.
   ‘Right, Mr B is on the case, honestly he’s the best cat in the business. I’ll go to him right now and tell him of this latest development. Don’t worry, Alfie, if I’ve got anything to do with it, he’ll be found safe and well.’ I tried but failed to feel reassured.
   Rocky was the first cat we saw. He went to get Elvis, who went to find Nellie, who rounded up Tinkerbell, and we all met at the end of the street. I outlined the situation.
   ‘So you want us to pretend to find him?’ Nellie said. Honestly!
   ‘No, contrary to our plan he is actually missing.’
   ‘Oh my word, the gorgeous little baby is actually missing?’ Nellie started yowling and Elvis had to calm her down. Although I could see all my friends had panic in their eyes.
   Once roles had been allocated, Tiger headed back to hers. I went with her to check but there was still no sign of George. I felt as if I had a paw missing, I missed him so much. I hoped he wasn’t scared or in danger.
   I went back home and slipped through the cat flap.
   ‘Have you found him?’ Claire, who was still not dressed, rushed up to me. I just looked at her, my eyes full of sorrow. She picked me up.‘Don’t worry, Jon and Matt will find him. Oh, Alfie, I’m sorry I shouted at you.’ She hugged me close before putting me down. I purred sadly. The doorbell went and Claire opened it to Tash.
   ‘Where’s Elijah?’ Claire asked.
   ‘With Granny today. She picked him up really early, so it means I can help. What should I do?’
   ‘No sign of him on the way here?’ Claire asked without hope.
   ‘No, I looked the whole way, on both sides of the road. I read somewhere kittens like to hide though, so he could just be hiding.’
   We had checked all the usual places more than once, so I knew that he wasn’t hiding.
   ‘Has Summer had her breakfast?’ Tash asked.
   ‘NO!’ Summer shouted. Tash grinned.
   ‘Claire, go and get dressed and I’ll make Summer some toast.’
   ‘Oh, thank you, Tash.’ Claire had tears glistening in her eyes as she made her way upstairs.
   By lunchtime everyone was in our kitchen. Claire, Jonathan, Polly and Matt sat at the table. Tash had set up a sort of playgroup in the living room for the children. The doorbell went again and I hoped it was someone with George, but we opened it to find Tomasz standing there.
   ‘Right, I am here now, so let’s make a plan,’ Tomasz said, sitting down.
   ‘Aren’t you supposed to be at work?’ Claire said.
   ‘Some things are more important. Don’t worry, my Alfie, we will find him.’ As he stroked me, I felt reassured, Tomasz was so big and comforting. I felt a slight sliver of hope.
   ‘I don’t know what we’ll do if we don’t find him.’ Claire started crying and Jonathan wrapped his arms around her.
   ‘We will find him,’ he said, but I heard his voice crack. He was such a softy underneath the bluster, but he sounded determined.
   ‘We have to,’ Polly said, her beautiful face ashen. Matt hugged her. Somehow the fact that everyone was being brought together didn’t make me feel any better.
   ‘I think I’ll call Max,’ Tash said, her cheeks reddening. The others looked at her. ‘He might be able to help, he’s quite practical.’
   ‘Good idea, Tash,’ Jonathan said, and I saw Tash brighten. I followed her into the other room, and when I heard her speak to him, I knew that she was letting him in. By asking for his help she was trusting him, and although I felt as bad as I ever had in my life, I felt a little better for that.
   It was decided that Tash would stay with the children and Claire and Jonathan would go on foot to the park at the end of the street, stopping at the Goodwins first— if anyone could find George it would be those nosey parkers, Jonathan said. Matt and Polly would go to the other end of the street and Tomasz and Max would drive around looking at the surrounding area. The plan was that if we hadn’t found him by nightfall they would put alerts on the local Facebook and then maybe even make posters … My baby might become a lamppost cat! But we all hoped it wouldn’t come to that. I prayed and prayed it wouldn’t come to that.
   I did actually see the flaw in my plan then. Even if it had worked, I had planned on George staying away overnight, but the amount of worry that that would have caused was unfair. No matter how much my humans needed to have their eyes opened, it wasn’t worth this distress. But now he really was missing, and it was all my fault.
   If anything happened to my kitten, I would never, ever forgive myself.
   Chapter Twenty-nine
   [Ea?oeiea: i_029.jpg]
   It was nearly teatime and I had had enough. I still cared about my humans, but not as much as I cared about getting George back. The adults were still looking for him, to no avail, so I went to round up my cat friends in the hope that they might have some leads. As I set off though, Salmon loomed over me.
   ‘Right, Alfie, what is going on?’ he demanded, narrowing his eyes. ‘I’ve seen the neighbourhood cats running around like headless chickens, your family have been to see my family and I heard them say they had to go and look for George before dashing out.’
   ‘So you know exactly what’s going on then. George is missing. It’s a long story but the fact is we need to find him.’ ‘I was afraid that was the case. I was actually hoping this was just one of your hair-brained schemes.’
   I wanted to be affronted, but for once Salmon was right.‘Well, he’s missing, and I’m frantic, we’re all frantic. What if he’s become one of the lamppost cats?’
   ‘My family said they were afraid that that might have happened to George. Look, they’re looking for all the cats, George now included, and with so many of us we’re bound to find him. And I’m off now, so if there’s any news I’ll report back.’ Salmon sounded kind, which was a first for me.
   ‘You will?’ I was wide-eyed.
   ‘Yes, the boy is very cute and, well, I’ve got a soft spot for him. Don’t worry Alfie, we’ll find him.’
   ‘But what if he’s with the other lamppost cats?’ I asked.
   ‘Then at least he’ll be among friends. Alfie, try not to worry.’
   I watched in amazement as Salmon bounded off. My kitten had bewitched even him.
   I was sure now that George was lost, not hiding, and the idea of him being afraid was almost too much for me to bear, especially now that night was falling. My cat friends had paired up to search the area: Nellie had gone with Tinkerbell, Rocky with Elvis. Tiger and I were sticking together— I needed her more now than I ever had. It was as if her physical presence was keeping me in one piece. Or almost. I wanted to curl up and yowl but I had to try to keep going until he was found. Not finding him was not an option.
   When we met up, all the cats reported where they had looked so far, and we all shared our frustrations that no one had come close to finding George. Despondency filled the air around us; I didn’t know how much more of this I could take.
   ‘I’ll go home and see if the humans have any news,’ I decided.‘You wait here for Dustbin, and I’ll be back as quickly as I can. They all nodded solemnly. Nellie had said that my plans brought them together, but this was a step too far. We were all distraught: for Pinkie, because of the fear that someone might be out there to hurt cats, and especially for George, who we all loved.
   My legs felt heavy as I made my way inside. I saw, to my dismay, all my humans at the kitchen table. Why weren’t they out looking?
   ‘Miaow,’ I said angrily. They all turned to look at me: Jonathan, Claire, Matt, Polly, Tomasz, Tash and, surprisingly, Max. I saw that Max and Tash were holding hands — what was that about? I then saw that on the table were posters, just like the lamppost ones, only these had a picture of my George on them. I felt my heart tear in two.
   ‘Hi, Alfie. No luck?’ Claire said. She looked terrible, as if she had been crying. In fact, none of my humans looked good. I just looked at her. I didn’t have the energy to even wonder where the children were.
   ‘Thanks for doing these posters so quickly, Max,’ Jonathan said.‘We can’t risk wasting any more time.’ He issued instructions to everyone on where they should put them up. I climbed onto Claire’s lap, and looked at George’s beautiful face.
   ‘You are such a star, Max,’ Tash said, and I saw her cheeks were again pink. It seemed they had resolved their issues, but I didn’t have any energy to be happy for them, not now at least. I jumped down and headed back out. We weren’t any closer to finding out where George was.
   ‘Dustbin?’ I asked hopefully as I approached Tiger, who was waiting by my gate.
   ‘Sorry, Alfie, he’s not here yet. The others have gone to do another search, no one has any idea what else to do.’
   ‘And for once I’m all out of plans. Tonight will be the first night I’ve spent away from George since he came to live with me. I’m not sure I can bear it.’
   ‘Alfie, look, why don’t we wait here until Dustbin comes? We’ll stay all night if we have to. And if either of us need to go inside then the other will be here.’
   ‘That would be great,’ I said.‘I just feel so useless.’
   ‘Alfie, we’ll get him back, I just know it.’ Tiger and I snuggled together by a bush, although I didn’t think sleep would visit that night.
   We saw Matt, Jonathan and Tomasz emerge from the front door, armed with posters.
   ‘Right, guys, meet you back here when they’ve all been put up,’ Jonathan said. They headed off, Matt and Tomasz in one direction, Jonathan in the other.
   ‘They’re putting up pictures, on the lampposts,’ I explained to Tiger. She looked distraught as the reality of what was happening hit us once again.
   ‘If only I hadn’t insisted on that stupid plan,’ I lamented.
   ‘Oh, Alfie, it’s not your fault. You only left him for a few minutes.’
   ‘I know, but I shouldn’t have left him at all. I should have waited with him until you came back. No matter what the plan was, he should not have been left alone.’
   ‘Well, we can’t turn back the clock, and blaming yourself isn’t going to help anyone. Come on, Alfie, let’s try to be positive. You’re the most positive cat I know.’
   ‘I just don’t feel it right now.’
   ‘I know, it’s horrible. I didn’t think I could miss anyone the way I miss George.’ Tiger looked sad.‘But we will find him. We have to.’
   ‘I just wish Dustbin would turn up.’
   The front door opened again and Tash walked out carrying Elijah. Max was next to her.
   ‘Are you sure I can’t carry him for you?’ Max asked.
   ‘I’m used to it,’ Tash replied.
   ‘But, Tash, you don’t have to. Look, I promised you we’d take things slowly, and I mean it, but let me help you.’ He sounded so genuine; I really liked this guy.
   ‘You’re right. I guess I’m so used to doing things myself. Max, you have to be patient with me.’
   ‘Hey, Patience is my middle name.’
   I really hoped it wasn’t.
   Tiger and I watched them walk off towards Tash’s flat, with Elijah now in Max’s arms. It was very sweet and had I not been so worried about my kitten my heart would be full of joy.
   ‘George needs you, Alfie,’ Tiger said, suddenly. ‘He needs us both. We sort of promised him we were his parents now and we have to protect him. No matter what.’
   ‘Tiger, you’re right. We need to be strong; no time for moping.’ We were going to find him. I closed my eyes and wished it with all my heart.
   Chapter Thirty [Ea?oeiea: i_030.jpg]
   I woke with a start. I was still lying under a bush; obviously I’d fallen asleep at some point, but it was still dark. Tiger slept beside me, looking so peaceful I almost forgot the turmoil we were in. I stretched out and took a look around. Still no sign of Dustbin, or any other cats for that matter. I paced around a bit, to loosen my legs up and also for want of something to do. I was just about to lie down next to Tiger again, when to my surprise I saw big Tomasz walking down our street. What was he doing? Had he found George? I barely dared to hope. I ran out onto the street to intercept him, and as soon as he saw me he scooped me up in his arms.
   ‘Alfie, is the middle of the night,’ he said as he sat on the garden wall, still cradling me. I miaowed — I knew that. But what was he doing here? ‘I have been thinking a lot. Seeing how lost you are without George makes me see how lost I am without my family — my wife and kittens. Alfie,I am coming to look for George tonight, while everyone else sleeps, but I feel so useless.’ I nestled into his neck; I felt the same. ‘Alfie, I’m sorry, but as worried about George as we all are, I know what I need to do. Tomorrow I am going to fly to Poland to get my family back. I hope we find George by then but if not I have to go. I hope you understand.’
   Tomasz was such a big, solid man but he sounded so sad. I did understand. After all, part of my grand plan had been to get him to go to Poland. I thought of the miserable irony of my life: Tash had opened herself up to Max and Tomasz was going to get his family, yet here I was having lost my kitten. There was no triumph, only pain, and I tried to ignore the horrible feeling that I would rather have George back than any of this. It was selfish of me, wasn’t it? I was suddenly realising that my kitten was more important to me than anyone, and his happiness and safety came above all else. I loved my humans, and I wanted their happiness, but not at the expense of George. I nestled into Tomasz again; I wanted to feel a bit of warmth because suddenly my fur was freezing, and so was my heart.
   After a while, Tomasz left to go and look for George. Poor Tomasz, he felt guilty at leaving us before George was found, so he was sacrificing his sleep to have one last look, but I had a terrible, sinking feeling it was fruitless. I was beginning to give up all hope. How could I continue to put one paw in front of the other? How could I eat, sleep, ever be happy again? I was pretty sure that unless George came back, I couldn’t.
   The next morning Tiger woke up and stretched; we had spent the entire night outside and I had been unable to get back to sleep. The sun was beginning to come up and as I saw Tomasz coming back again. I looked, hopefully, to see if he had George, but his arms were empty. As he came up to our front door, I looked at Tiger, who nodded. I was going to go inside to see if there was any news. He rang the doorbell and I stood at his feet as Jonathan, wearing his dressing gown and with hair messier than I’d ever seen it before, opened the door. His skin was pale and I guessed he hadn’t slept much either. Wordlessly, he stepped aside and let Tomasz and me in.
   ‘No luck?’ he said, as they made their way into the kitchen. He began to fiddle with the coffee machine.
   ‘I walked around for hours. No sign. But, Jon, I need to say something. I have decided that I am going to Poland today. I book a flight, I leave the restaurants with the managers.’
   ‘Mate, you’re going to get your family back!’ I saw a faint glimmer of a smile on Jonathan’s lips.
   ‘I feel so bad leaving when George is missing but I need to tell Franceska and the boys how important they are to me.’
   ‘Yes, Tom, you do and you know we’ll find George. I just feel it. So you go and I’ll text with any news, but first you need coffee, you look like death warmed up.’
   ‘Then looking at you is like looking in a mirror,’ Tomasz joked.
   ‘Who knew how painful this could be. And for poor Alfie too. You know, we will find him,’ Jonathan said again, but I wasn’t sure who he was trying to convince — me, Tomasz or himself.
   I watched the house come alive but there was a flatness to everyone. Even little Summer wasn’t her usual self, she must sense that something was wrong. Children can be quite perceptive, I had learnt, though not quite as perceptive as cats. Claire wore her emotions on her face and I knew she had been crying. She kept hugging me and saying how sorry she was. Jonathan kept giving us both worried glances as he filled Claire in on Tomasz’s revelation.
   ‘I’m so glad he’s come to his senses,’ Claire said. ‘But honestly I wish it hadn’t taken losing George to do it.’
   ‘No, darling, nothing is worth losing George for,’ Jonathan agreed.
   I had some water and tried to eat, although it felt as if the food would choke me. Spotting George’s bowl sitting empty in the cupboard was almost more than my heart could bear. I cleaned myself up a bit and listened to Claire and Jonathan trying to come up with a plan.
   ‘We’ve looked around, we’ve put posters up and we have Vic and Heather on the case. I think our best bet might be to sit tight here and hope the phone rings,’ Jonathan suggested.
   ‘I agree. Tomasz has been looking all night, we searched everywhere all day yesterday, and Vic and Heather even spoke to the police. If we stay close to home we might hear news or maybe, just maybe, George will come home.’
   Oh, how I envied their optimism. Though I felt a little angry with them— they seemed to think they could sit around and do nothing. There was no way I could that. I had to be out there, doing something. Even if it was fruitless.
   I left the house and made my way round to the front of the house to see Tiger looking uncertainly at something.
   ‘What is it?’ I said, rushing up to her.
   ‘Your friend is coming,’ she said, sounding nervous,‘and he has someone with him.’ I squinted as I saw Dustbin approaching from a distance. My heart swelled with hope but the cat with him wasn’t George, it was a big black cat. Tiger and I both sat upright, waiting for them to approach.
   ‘Alfie, can we talk somewhere a bit more private?’ Dustbin asked, gesturing to his companion. I wordlessly led them under our bush, where we’d be hidden.‘Right, first things first. This is Mr B. And Mr B, this is Alfie and Tiger.’ We all nodded our hellos. ‘Mr B is the best in the business, an expert at finding stuff. In fact, he helped me when your Snowball was lost.’
   ‘I remember it well,’ said Mr B.‘Pretty white cat, got herself into a bit of a scrape. Anyway, the thing is, Dustbin told me about the lamppost cats, and I’ve spent a bit of time looking into it, and I think we’ve got the answer.’
   ‘Really?’ I couldn’t breathe. They had found George?
   ‘Look, it’s been a bit of a job, but we got lucky, or we think we have. It seems that someone’s going round picking up cats off the street when they aren’t expecting it.’
   ‘You mean there really is a cat snatcher?’ Tiger looked terrified.
   ‘Yes. We don’t know who it is or why they’re doing it, but after extensive work we have found the house we think the cats have been taken to.Think is the operative word here— we can’t be one hundred per cent sure. But after doing some surveillance around this area we heard reports of unsocial levels of cat noise.’ Mr B sounded very professional, I thought. Once again I was indebted to Dustbin.
   ‘George is there?’ I asked.
   ‘We don’t know, Alfie. We know where the house is, it’s not far from here, but getting in isn’t going to be easy. The front has a high gate, which we can’t see over — it’s too tall to get up there. Attached to it is a wire fence which leads around a garden. We could see in but the curtains were all drawn and the house was in darkness. However, we were able to verify that indeed there were a large number of cats there.’
   ‘How?’ Tiger asked.
   ‘Good question,’ Mr B replied. ‘There’s a lot of noise, although be reassured we didn’t necessarily hear cats in distress, just cat chatter, and more than would be normal for a domestic house. Then there’s a shelter at the back which is packed full of tins of cat food and big bags of biscuits.’ I shuddered, I didn’t like cat food from tins myself.‘The house is also being guarded by some kind of creature right next to the wire fence. With the high gate, the drawn curtains on every window, the cat food and these guards, the evidence points to the fact that the person living there is hiding something — or rather, is hiding lots of cats.’
   ‘I guess it makes sense.’ I felt doubtful but we had nothing else.
   ‘Alfie, we can’t be certain, but if George is there then we need to find out soon. We need a plan,’ Dustbin said. I felt a tiny bit of hope swell inside me. This was the first bit of news since George had gone missing and I needed to be strong now, for my boy.
   They needed a plan. Well, they had come to the right place.
   Chapter Thirty-one [Ea?oeiea: i_031.jpg]
   I felt nervous. Of all the plans I had ever put into play, this one had the most riding on it. Not only George but potentially all the lamppost cats would be saved by this. I had rounded up as many of my friends as I could to explain what we needed to do.
   After long discussions with Mr B and Dustbin I had all the information I needed, and they had even taken Tiger and I to the house. As they had said, it was in total darkness, but we could hear faint cat noises coming from inside. The front gate wasn’t going to help us but the back fence, which stretched around the house, was wire, and although it wouldn’t be easy, it provided a possibility.
   The best thing though was that the creatures guarding the house turned out to be hens. Their run followed the fence all the way along its length, so the only way to get into the garden was via them. I managed to poke my nose through the fence, and although they were angry, squawking and wobbling their heads at me, when I explained that I had many hen friends in the country— only a slight exaggeration — they were more welcoming. At least they didn’t try to peck me through the fence with their beaks, anyway. We didn’t exactly communicate easily but we managed to establish that I would need their help, and as they calmed down I think they agreed to it. I was thankful for my time in the country: my understanding of hens looked as if it was finally coming in handy.
   ‘Impressive,’ Dustbin said as I came back. ‘But that fence will be tricky to climb.’ He was right: it was tall and there was spiked wire along the top. It didn’t look very safe.
   ‘I know, I think I can do it though, if I put my mind to it,’ I said, trying to sound brave, although I was quaking all the way down to my paws.
   ‘Oh, Alfie, are you sure, it looks as if it could really hurt you and your leg …’Tiger sounded worried.
   ‘Tiger, if my boy is in there I have to do it. I’ll get over there somehow.’ The others looked worried but it was agreed that Dustbin would accompany me. Tiger and I then left Dustbin and Mr B to keep watch on the house. They were going to wait there, because we still had a lot to do before we were ready for the actual cat rescue.
   ‘So, Alfie, what can we do?’ Rocky asked as I told them about the house.
   I outlined our plan from start to finish, leaving no stone unturned, and by the time I had finished speaking everyone understood how serious it was.‘So, guys, I’m going to go. Dustbin and Mr B are waiting.’ I looked at Tiger, the only other cat who knew where the house was. She was needed in case anything went wrong.‘I have to sort out the humans too, but if you guys could find Salmon for me then that would be great. Tiger, can you direct Salmon to the house?’ I explained exactly what I needed Salmon to do. I wanted to give all my friends a part in the plan, although many of them were just going to be supportive roles. I knew how important it was for them to feel useful. Tinkerbell was going to assist Tiger, whilst Rocky, Nellie and Elvis were going to ensure they knew what was going on and would warn either Tiger or Tinkerbell of any problems. I could see how fired up they all were. Frightened, yes, but adrenaline was pumping through all of us. We were going to rescue George.
   This plan was risky because I couldn’t do it with my cats alone. I had to get the humans involved and that wasn’t going to be easy. However, everyone agreed they knew their parts and what they had to do, so I felt as confident as I could.
   ‘Good luck, Alfie, we’re all supporting you, and we’ll be waiting to see you come home safely with the boy,’ Elvis said.
   ‘You’re such a brave cat,’ Nellie added.
   I took a deep breath, and went to put the plan into action.
   My first stop was home. I needed some humans with me and my preferred ones were Jonathan and Matt. They were physically fit and if I could get them to come with me then that would be half the battle won. Or quite a bit of it anyway. I still had quite a bit of work to do, as did Dustbin, who being such a tough cat was my chosen sidekick.
   Once we got to the house I knew everything would happen very quickly, but first I had to get there and hope that I could get at least some of my humans there too.
   I walked into the kitchen. It was funny how wrong it felt without George. He had only lived with us for a short time but the house needed him. I padded my way over to where Claire and Tash were feeding the children. Polly was pacing, as was Matt. Jonathan was on his phone.
   ‘Oh, Alfie, there you are,’ Claire said.‘I guess there’s still no news?’
   ‘Miaow.’ I took a breath.‘Miaow, miaow, miaow, miaow,’ I screeched as loudly as I could. Everyone stared at me. Right, so I’d got their attention. I ran around in circles, still yowling, then I ran towards the front door, the idea being that someone would follow me.
   As I sat by the front door, listening to them all talking about me in the kitchen, I began to realise that might not happen.
   ‘Has he gone mad?’ Tash asked.
   ‘Blimey, who knew he could even make that noise,’ Jonathan said. OK, I told myself, trying to keep calm, this wasn’t going to be as easy as I thought.
   I went back and repeated the routine, yowling, miaowing and making as much noise as I could, but they all just stared at me dumbfounded, and then Summer burst into tears. I was feeling frustrated as Claire comforted her, telling her not to worry, though she looked worried herself. I went to Jonathan. He was my only hope it seemed, and that was slim. Honestly, they say humans are clever, but really? These guys were not showing it very well. I tried to sit up and swipe at his leg, but he just looked at me.
   ‘What, Alfie?’ he asked.
   ‘YOWL!!’ I replied, but still he looked confused. I hated to do it, and hoped he would forgive me later, but I had no choice. I scratched him as forcefully as I could.
   ‘Ow! What on earth did you do that for?’
   I took my chance as he looked at me angrily.‘MEOW,’ I said, running towards the front door.
   ‘I think he wants you to follow him,’ Claire said at last.‘Do you think he knows something?’
   As I sat by the front door, bashing it with my head to further illustrate my point, Matt, Jonathan and Polly finally appeared. At this rate I would have to knock myself out before they did what I needed them to do. As Jonathan opened the door I ran out, glad to see he followed me.
   ‘What is he doing?’ Polly asked as she stood at the door.
   ‘No idea, but Jon and I will follow him, you guys stay with the kids. I’ll call you if anything happens,’ Matt shouted as they started following me down the road. I took the route that I had memorised so carefully. I was tired but we had to hurry. If George was in that strange house then I wanted him out of there as quickly as possible.
   I remembered the route perfectly, which was a huge relief, and as I reached the house, Mr B and Dustbin were waiting for me. I wasn’t sure what Matt and Jonathan would think but Mr B slipped into the shadows, leaving only Dustbin and me.
   ‘I think I saw your boy,’ Dustbin whispered. ‘There was a moment when the curtain went back and I can’t be sure but I think it might have been George.’
   ‘I hope it was.’ My heart sang at the idea.‘Are you ready?’ I asked, and Dustbin indicated he was.
   Matt and Jonathan were standing by the high gate, trying and failing to open it. They banged on it loudly but to no avail.
   ‘What is this?’ Matt asked.
   ‘No idea, maybe Alfie really has gone mad? Mad cat’s disease or something,’ Jonathan said. I yowled at him — this was no time for jokes.‘OK, sorry. Right, Alfie. What is this place and who is that enormous cat?’
   ‘I can’t be sure but I think it might be Tomasz’s restaurant cat,’ Matt said, looking puzzled.
   ‘Nothing would surprise me with these guys,’ Jonathan said, as we led them to the fence. I miaowed a lot to get the chickens’ attention. They stared at me with their small beady eyes but stayed quiet, which I took to mean they were ready for us. I took a breath and then started scaling the fence. It wasn’t easy: the wire was slippery and it was high.
   ‘Blimey, what’s he doing?’ Matt asked. I noticed neither of them tried to help me.
   ‘Do you think, I mean, is it possible, that maybe George is in that house?’
   ‘I can’t see why else Alfie would do that. He doesn’t like heights remember.’
   As I climbed with Dustbin by my side, encouraging me, I ignored the humans. At least they had figured out why we were here, so hopefully they would actually do something useful now. After what seemed like forever, I made it over the spikes and prepared to begin my descent. Going down looked so much scarier than coming up. I froze.
   ‘I think we should call the police,’ Jonathan said finally.
   ‘And say what?’ Matt replied.
   ‘That there might be a cat snatcher in that house,’ Jonathan said. I glanced back at him from the top of the fence and he pulled out his phone.
   ‘What evidence do we have though?’ Matt asked.
   ‘Well, they have our cat, or they will in a minute anyway. Look, Alfie’s about get in there.’
   Out of the corner of my eye I could see Jonathan pull out his phone and start to dial, looking anxious.
   ‘They might not believe us,’ Matt said.‘Although yes, if you say our cat is in there it might work.’
   ‘Exactly. Unless you’ve got any better ideas? If there is a cat snatcher in there they might be nasty, so we can’t take them on.’
   ‘True, right, get the police,’ Matt said, still sounding uncertain.
   ‘It’s OK, Alfie,’ Dustbin said quietly. ‘Watch me, just go quickly, gripping where you can, and you’ll be on the ground in no time.
   I was still terrified. Matt was right, I didn’t like heights — and what if Dustbin and I were heading into terrible danger? I was glad Jonathan was calling the police.
   I gave myself a little pep talk and, as I saw Dustbin reach the bottom, I knew I could do it. I could do it for my boy. I landed a little roughly but I made it. Dustbin still looked scared of the chickens but he managed to jump out of the coop easily. I looked at the chickens.
   ‘I hope you understand this. I’m going to chase you, but I promise I won’t hurt you, I just need you to make a lot of noise,’ I told them.
   ‘Cluck, cluck, cluck,’ they replied, which I was pretty sure was hen-speak for ‘yes’.
   I took a breath and started running after the chickens. They flew everywhere, and thankfully they must have understood me as they made a huge racket. Even though I was tired, I kept going, and the chickens made more and more noise. Probably a bit more than necessary, but then chickens could be quite dramatic. Feathers started flying. I hadn’t even done anything.
   ‘Blimey, why is he chasing chickens? He was scared of them when we were on holiday — didn’t want to go anywhere near them,’ Jonathan said. ‘Alfie, stop that, stop that now!’ he shouted, but of course I wasn’t going to stop for him.
   Finally a door sprang open and a scruffy lady emerged. As she ran at me screaming, Dustbin managed to sneak into house. Great, the first part of our plan had worked!
   ‘Get off my chickens,’ the woman shouted; she sounded a bit like the queen. ‘Get off them!’ Yeah, as if, I thought. I chased the chickens even harder, until I was sure Dustbin was safely inside. Thankfully the woman had forgotten to shut the door too. The idea was that he would tell all thecats to come out, so there could be no doubt that this person had the missing lamppost cats. I just hoped she did have them, after all of this. It would be a bit embarrassing otherwise.
   ‘We’re sorry,’ Jonathan said, his voice shaky as if he was nervous, when the woman noticed them. ‘Alfie, get out of there!’ I did as he asked, hopping into the woman’s garden to stand by her feet. I noticed she was wearing one boot, but the other foot only had a holey sock on it. She didn’t exactly look dangerous, although her grey hair was wild and she wore a huge jumper over what looked like pyjamas.
   ‘Right, well, I’m sorry about this but if you could open the front gate, then Alfie can come with us,’ Matt said, glancing at Jonathan. He and Jonathan turned around; they were looking for the police, I guessed.
   ‘I will do no such thing. This cat is mine now,’ she said, looking at me. ‘Ahh, I don’t have a British Blue and you are very handsome.’ I raised my whiskers — how kind of her to notice — but then I remembered where I was and why I was there.
   ‘He’s our cat,’ Matt said angrily.‘Give him back!’ He stood as close as he could to the fence and Jonathan joined him.
   ‘Yowl,’ I said angrily.
   The woman stared at me, then at Jonathan and Matt before turning around and looking at her back door.
   ‘Arrrghhh!’ she screamed as Dustbin emerged, followed by a horde of cats. My heart quickened as I saw George next to Dustbin.
   ‘Miaow,’ I said, running up to him.‘Thank goodness you’re all right.’ I nuzzled him with all my might.
   ‘Dad, I knew you’d come,’ George replied.
   ‘Right, no time for that just now, we need to stick together.’ I saw Pinkie emerge with the others; there must have been about twenty cats there! She ran over to me.
   ‘Thank goodness,’ she said. ‘Alfie, thank goodness you’re here.’ She looked upset. ‘I’m so relieved to be out. I really didn’t like being there, not even her fridge was a comfort to me.’
   ‘It’s OK, you are all free now,’ I said.
   Although I realised with a sinking feeling that actually none of us were; we were still stuck in the woman’s garden.
   ‘You really are the cat snatcher!’ Jonathan shouted above the noise, as cats of all shapes and sizes ran around the garden, miaowing loudly.
   ‘I most certainly am not,’ the woman replied.
   ‘But you’ve got our kitten, and you’re trying to take Alfie!’ Matt said.
   ‘They are all mine. Mine I tell you,’ she screeched. I looked at her, worried she was deranged. As she tried to round up the cats, including me, two things happened. We heard a police siren coming closer, just as Vic and Heather Goodwin ran up to Matt and Jonathan, with Salmon at their heels. Ihad never been so pleased to see them. Actually before now I hadnever been pleased to see them, so this situation really was very odd.
   ‘What is going on?’ Vic shouted.
   ‘She’s the cat snatcher,’ Matt said.
   I snuggled close to George; we didn’t know how to get out but at least I had my boy. The other cats all seemed happy to be outside as they ran around in circles, enjoying their freedom.
   ‘What, this old lady?’ Heather asked, incredulous.‘Citizen’s arrest!’ she shouted, although how she was going to do that from the other side of the fence I wasn’t sure.
   ‘I am not the cat snatcher. These are all my cats,’ the woman maintained.
   ‘The police are on the way,’ Matt told them.
   ‘Good. And that’s not true, lady.’ Vic waved a bunch of papers at the woman. ‘All these cats have been reported missing.’
   ‘And George is one of them,’ Jonathan said.
   ‘You are a cat-napper of the worst kind,’ Heather shouted.
   ‘But …’ The woman looked defeated.‘I just wanted them to be mine.’
   The police car pulled up and two policemen got out.
   ‘What on earth is going on?’ one of them asked, as Vic took it upon himself to explain.
   In the ensuing madness, I was able to check that George was all right. He said that Pinkie had looked after him and the other cats were all very friendly. They were all very upset to have been kitty-napped, as they thought of it. But the cat snatcher, who it turned out was called Henrietta, was kind to them, although she wouldn’t let them go out, so the house was a mess and the cats were all stir-crazy. She hadn’t been mean though, which to me was the main thing.
   It transpired that she had grabbed George from Tiger’s back step in the few seconds he had been there alone. She must have been watching us. I shuddered to think that I had been so careless.
   ‘Let us in,’ one policeman said.
   ‘I’d rather not,’ the lady replied uncertainly.
   ‘Either let us in or we will have to force our way in, and you’re in enough trouble as it is.’
   As the police eventually gained entry, with Matt and Jonathan alongside them, Vic and Heather also barged in. They were doing their best to tell the bemused policemen what to do.
   ‘You should arrest her,’Vic said.
   ‘Lock her up and throw away the key,’ Heather concurred.
   ‘Well, perhaps first we should sort out what to do with all these cats. It’s not like we can take them to the station,’ one of the policemen said, looking slightly afraid.
   ‘No need,’ said Heather. ‘We can call all the owners and they’ll come and collect them. Look, I’ve got the posters. We took a copy of each so we knew what cats to look out for. We don’t run the neighbourhood watch for nothing, you know.’
   ‘Well that is good, Mr and Mrs Goodwin. Right, Ms …’
   ‘Babbington-Smythe. But you can call me Henrietta,’ the strange lady said. She even held out her hand to the officer, who looked confused but shook it.
   ‘Come with me,’ said one of the policemen.‘I’m afraid I’ll have to ask you to wait inside while we sort this out.’ The other policeman used his radio to inform someone that they had a cat situation which may take a while. As Matt scooped up George, Jonathan phoned Claire to tell her what was going on and I managed to get a quiet moment with Dustbin and Mr B.
   ‘I don’t know how to thank you, Mr B, you did a sterling job. And, Dustbin, you proved, yet again, what a great friend you are. None of these cats would be free without you.’
   ‘I dunno about that, Alfie, but I’m just glad the boy is all right,’ said Dustbin. ‘The other cats too, of course, but especially him.’ We nuzzled.‘And, Alfie, it took real guts to do what you did, that fence, your fear of heights, the hens. Good job.’
   ‘I’m sorry to interrupt, but I must get back, you never know when I’ll be needed next,’ Mr B said. They both managed to get away without anyone noticing or trying to rehome them, thankfully.
   After what seemed like ages with the policeman, we were allowed to go. Heather and Vic agreed to wait for the other cat owners, only to help the police, of course. As I gave Salmon a grin, I realised the Goodwins were in their element. They were loving every minute, although possibly disappointed they didn’t get to make a citizen’s arrest.
   As we made our way home, Matt carrying George, Jonathan carrying me, I realised that this plan had worked pretty well. No one was hurt, I hadn’t got more than a couple of scratches from the fence, no chickens had been harmed, and I had George safe and sound with me.
   ‘Thank you all so much,’ I said to the chickens. I felt as if I was friends with the creatures now.
   ‘Cluck,’ they replied, bobbing their heads in what I could only assume meant ‘you’re welcome’.
   My relief was palpable. I had relied on a team, and that team had really come through. As we approached Edgar Road I saw Tiger at my gate. I miaowed and Jonathan set me down.
   ‘He’s safe,’ I said, grinning.
   ‘Oh, Alfie, you did it!’ Tiger looked so happy and I felt closer to her than ever in that moment.
   ‘No, Tiger,we did it.’ I nuzzled her and felt like the luckiest cat in the world.
   Chapter Thirty-two [Ea?oeiea: i_032.jpg]
   It was pandemonium when we got back with George. Claire burst into tears, as did Summer, who ran up to George, clutched him to her little chest and told him,‘Bad kitten.’ George looked confused at this telling off, but I gave him a reassuring look. Polly and the kids all crowded round him and of course they wanted to hear the story.
   ‘Alfie did it, really,’ Jonathan said, looking confused.‘After that whole thing here, the kerfuffle, he made us follow him and he led us to the house. How did you find it when no one else had?’ Jonathan asked me. I tilted my head to the side. ‘I think he had help, cat help, that is. And then he took his life, or one of them anyway, into his own hands …’ Jonathan told the story, but it sounded a bit more like one of his action films than what really happened. I mean yes, it was dramatic, but not quite as dramatic as he made out.
   ‘So it turns out that poor Henrietta worked at a cattery, but she hated giving the cats back so they gave her the boot,’ Matt said.‘Which sent her a bit mad and she basically scooped up all the cats she came across. There were about twenty there, all in this big dilapidated house.’
   ‘Imagine the smell, Claire, you would not have coped,’ Jonathan added. It was funny what humans dwelled on.
   Everyone was so happy and made a huge fuss of George, but I got a hero’s welcome after Matt and Jonathan finished explaining what had happened. Claire went to get us some smoked salmon, which was very welcome after our ordeal.
   We ate as everyone stayed close by, all chattering with relief.
   ‘Have you told Tash?’ Jonathan asked.
   ‘Yes, I texted her. She’s at home with Elijah, he wasn’t feeling too well, but Max is with her so she said she would celebrate. And Tomasz? Has anyone let him know?’
   ‘I texted him,’ Jonathan said. ‘And look.’ He held up his phone, which had a photo of my Polish family on it.‘Family selfie, so it’s all good with them,’ Jonathan grinned. I began to relax. George was back where he belonged. In fact, it seemed everyone was where they belonged right now.
   As I snuggled up with George, after we’d eaten and cleaned ourselves, I wanted everyone to see how much I loved him. I hoped they would then see how much they loved each other.
   ‘It’s amazing, really,’ Polly said. ‘Alfie has really adopted George as if he’s his own. Even if he’d fathered him he couldn’t love him any more.’ Claire looked at Polly and then at Jonathan. I saw Jonathan looking at me and then he reached over and grabbed Claire’s hand.
   ‘And we love those cats as if they’re our children, almost,’ Matt pointed out.
   ‘We do,’ Claire said, and I saw she had tears in her eyes as she held tightly onto Jonathan’s hand. I made a note to make an extra fuss of Polly later. How clever she had been with what she said.
   ‘Polly,’ said Matt,‘I was thinking a lot today, when we were looking for George. I felt so scared for him, I know we all did, but it was as if we’d lost a part of the family. And so I think we need to decide, for the good of our family, how we can both work, because I don’t think it’s good for anyone if either of us are miserable.’
   ‘We have been awful lately,’ Polly said.‘Poor kids, we must have been a nightmare to live with.’ I purred my agreement from where I was resting: they had been.
   ‘You can get a nanny or an au pair or something,’ Jonathan said.‘Plenty of parents do that.’
   ‘And I can help you find one,’ Claire said. She was so efficient that I knew she’d probably find them someone in no time.‘And you’re right. We’ve all made a bit of a mess of things lately, perhaps this was the wake-up call we all needed to start putting things right.’ She looked at her husband.
   ‘We’ll talk, properly talk, later,’ Jonathan said, leaning over to kiss her.
   Henry walked into the kitchen and up to his dad. He looked cross.
   ‘What’s up, mate?’ Matt asked.
   ‘Martha and Summer want me to dress up as a girl and go to a pretend tea party with them.’ He didn’t sound happy.
   ‘Oh boy, those girls are so bossy. Right, Henry, come with me and I’ll find you something else to do,’ Jonathan said, taking his hand.
   ‘Can I play on the iPad?’ Henry looked hopeful.
   ‘OK, but you’d better use it in the kitchen or the girls will squabble over it.’ Jonathan ruffled Henry’s hair as he went to get his iPad. Henry sat on a chair in the corner of the room, happy once again now he was safe from the girls.
   Oh, I thought as I felt the warmth of my little boy, it could all be so easy, if only people would let it.
   ‘I’m going to open a bottle of champagne,’ Jonathan announced. ‘We need to celebrate George’s safe return.’ He went to the fridge to get a bottle.
   ‘You know, the last time I was as scared as I was today was when Alfie was ill and I didn’t know if he’d survive,’ Claire said. She was talking about my first plan, which had been incredibly dangerous. Although it had worked, it did almost kill me.
   ‘And to think we didn’t know each other then. Gosh, Claire, I can’t imagine not having you guys in my life,’ Polly said.
   ‘If it wasn’t for Alfie, and now for George, we wouldn’t all be talking like this, like we haven’t done for ages, so I reckon we should toast them,’ Matt suggested.
   ‘You’d almost think he planned the whole thing,’ Jonathan laughed.
   ‘Oh, Jon, you are so ridiculous where Alfie’s concerned, of course he didn’t. But Matt’s right, our lives are richer for having them in it, so let’s toast them,’ said Claire, giving Jonathan an affectionate pat on the arm.
   Jonathan stood up and cleared his throat.
   ‘To love, family and friends — and that includes our lovely, clever cats, without whom we would be lost. As lost as little George was. To Alfie and George.’ He raised his champagne and everyone echoed him as they clinked glasses.
   My heart swelled, so full of joy, I wondered if it would burst.
   Apart from the fact that George actually did go missing, and my plan had gone totally awry, the end result was exactly what I had hoped for. No, it wasn’t worth losing George for, and I would never leave him ever again, not for a moment, but we had him back and it was time to stop dwelling on the bad times and look to our future. Which, as I listened to Claire and Jonathan talk that night, seemed to be exactly what they were doing.
   ‘I think adoption is important for so many reasons,’ Claire said. ‘A child needs a loving family, and we have one, we are one. There are too many children in the world that don’t have what we can offer,’ she said.
   ‘I know and I want to, but I’m scared. What if I don’t love the child like I love Summer? I can’t believe how much I do love her, it takes me by surprise even now.’
   ‘But what if you do love them? Jonathan, you don’t realise how big your heart is, you treat all the kids — Aleksy, little Tomasz, Elijah, Henry and Martha — as if they’re family.’
   ‘I know, and I love them all, but they don’t live with me. I’m not their father.’
   ‘But you are like Alfie and George’s dad now, as well as Summer’s.’
   ‘I sometimes think that perhaps I could do it, but I’m scared, Claire. And by the way, I know we treat them like they’re children but Alfie and George are cats.’
   I did fleetingly think that Jonathan hadn’t exactly welcomed me when I first met him, physically ejecting me from this very house a number of times, but then I knew that was a very different Jonathan to the one I had now. I had won him round and Claire had fixed whatever was wrong with him. Now he was the best father anyone could have. Well, apart from me of course!
   ‘I know that, and it is scary. I’m sorry I’ve been so determined to do it that I haven’t really thought how frightening it is. I’m not just thinking about me, you know. I think that expanding our family in this way will be good for all of us. Summer would really love a sibling, we have a loving home to offer any child, and who cares if he’s older than her.’
   ‘He? Don’t tell me you’ve already got a child and haven’t told me.’
   I thought I wouldn’t put it past Claire actually. Jonathan looked even more terrified.
   ‘Of course not.’ Phew, I was relieved.‘But in my head it’s a boy. A big brother for our Sum, someone to take care of her. To protect her while we protect him.’ Claire had tears in her eyes, and I felt a hit of emotion. It would be so perfect, to open our home, our family to a child who didn’t have one. That’s what they had done with me.
   ‘I would like that. I’d also like to have another child, but Claire, what if I don’t feel the right way about them, what if I don’t feel that I’m their parent?’
   ‘Trust me, you will. When the right child comes here, you will feel it.’
   ‘But how can you be so sure?’ he asked.
   ‘Because of Alfie and George.’
   Chapter Thirty-three [Ea?oeiea: i_033.jpg]
   It was over six months since George had gone missing. He was big now, and never got into any trouble. Pah, who am I kidding? He was always up to something. Luckily he had grown out of hide and seek— I think being trapped in Henrietta’s house for so long had put him off hiding. The local paper had called her a mad cat woman — I have to admit, I actually felt a bit sorry for her. She was actually a woman who loved cats, although of course that didn’t mean she could just nick us off thestreet. Anyway, despite his ordeal, George still loved playing with bags, boxes and curtains, jumping up and climbing. I was forever telling him off but I had learnt that was an important job for any parent, cat or human.
   However, I also made sure he knew he was loved. I was always on hand with a nuzzle whenever he needed one— or if I’m honest, whenever I did. Making sure George knew how loved he was was my most important job. It was so funny, how reluctant I had been when he first arrived, how I wanted to be alone with my heartbreak, but Claire had obviously known what she was doing.
   I was teaching George how important us cats actually were in the lives of our humans. He did get a bit carried away, telling me that his latest goal was to make Summer less bossy. I wished him luck with that; it was too ambitious a plan, even for me. And for him, I thought, as I watched her still insisting that he pretend to be her baby. But the boy was taking after me, and although there was no blood shared, I could never love anyone more. A chip off the old block, he was eagerly lapping up information and charming all the neighbourhood cats, even Salmon; he pretty much had us all wrapped round his little paws.
   Tiger had become such a great surrogate mum to George too. We spent so much more time together and although she was still sarcastic, judgmental and a little scathing of my more sentimental side, she took George under her paw as if he was her own. We were quite a team, the three of us. We had a bond I knew no one could ever take away from us, and we spent more time together than ever. Even Claire and Jonathan had noticed the time we spent together, calling Tiger and I an‘old married couple’. They thought it was funny. I did not. There was nothing old about me.
   And our other cat friends were all part of our lives in a way they hadn’t been before. Losing George and Pinkie had bonded us in a way that took us all by surprise. The cats of Edgar Road were a force to be reckoned with, and not to mention Dustbin, whose friendship I valued highly.
   My families were all doing well again, and I had my paws crossed that it stayed that way. I didn’t for one minute think that it would — after all, it never did — but I had learnt to enjoy the good times and only worry about the bad when they actually came.
   Tash was now a fully-fledged resident of Edgar Road and George and I visited her flat regularly. She was seeing Max and apparently their status was‘in a relationship’. She was cautious, but happy. And though it hadn’t been plain sailing, they weren’t friends, Tash and Dave had reached a level of agreement over Elijah which, according to Tash, was the most she could hope for. And lovely Elijah was so laid back and happy; he was gettingbig but he was the loveliest boy. The adults joked that he and Summer would get married one day but to be honest I wasn’t sure it was a good idea, Summer would run rings around him. He’d be totally henpecked — I had learnt what that phrase meant from my holiday in the country and my rescue mission. Of course, I loved Summer and I loved her bossiness, I just didn’t wish it on anyone else.
   I had been to stay with my Polish family, with George as well, because Claire and Jonathan had had something important to do. They were much happier now and Aleksy told me he was no longer worried about his parents. Big Tomasz was busy, and they were planning on opening their third restaurant, but they had put such a good formula in place that he didn’t have to actually be working all the time. He was the brains behind the food, his business partner looked after the business side, and they had good chefs and managers working for them. They were even talking about moving to a bigger home, so the boys, who were growing so fast, would have more space. I could see their point but I worried that I would miss Dustbin. George and I loved hanging out with him. He’d declared that George was a very good hunter, which I didn’t approve of; but I couldn’t really stop him, it was natural for most cats and I knew I was an anomaly. But I enjoyed spending time with Dustbin, who was one of the wisest cats I knew; even if they moved, I would find a way to see him, I knew the way to his home by now. Franceska was saying how wonderful it would be if they could live on Edgar Road again, although they hadn’t seriously looked at anything at this stage. Jonathan joked that they were turning into ‘The Waltons’, although I didn’t know what he meant. I would love to have them back on our street — I would have another home to visit regularly and I would feel like a proper doorstep cat again. You could never have too many homes.
   I’d tried explaining this to George when I’d settled him back home. He had been a little traumatised by his ordeal but mainly because of the noise of the other cats.
   ‘This is your home,’ I’d said.‘Always remember that.’
   ‘But what about Matt and Polly’s?’
   ‘Well, yes, that’s your home too.’
   ‘And Franceska and Tomasz.’
   ‘Yes, that’s your home too, but nowhere else.’ I was getting a bit frustrated.
   ‘Tash?’
   ‘OK, George, what I am trying to say is that these are your homes, all the ones you mentioned. But the easiest way to look at it is that your home is wherever I am.’ He seemed to accept that.
   It had taken a while, but Polly and Matt had ironed their issues out. They both worked now and they both loved their jobs, but they made their family life work too and had employed a nanny, who the others shared sometimes. Lucy, the nanny, was so nice and we all liked her. Polly and Matt also made sure they spent time together once a week. They were all lovey-dovey like they used to be. Polly looked so much like her old self, beautiful and happy. Matt was relaxed and he enjoyed the time he spent at home— even the tidying. They were planning a big family holiday, but I was pretty sure that George and I weren’t going to be invited. Martha was getting bigger, as was Henry. He now refused to play with Martha and Summer and was relieved when Aleksy and little Tomasz returned from Poland and he hadboys to play with again.
   Claire, Jonathan and Summer were all great too. George and Summer were so close, and I liked that, because I wanted her to have that relationship the way I did with Aleksy. We both loved all the children but we did have an extra closeness with those two, because I felt as if I had grown up with Aleksy and Summer was growing up with George. Summer had turned three recently and we’d had a lovely family party, and it was then that Claire and Jonathan told us their big news. It hadn’t happened overnight, but it didn’t matter, because today was a big day. Everything was about to change yet again, only this time I hoped it was going to change for the better.
   We were all very nervous and excited at the same time. My stomach fluttered. We were all looking our best: Jonathan wore a pair of smart trousers and a shirt; Claire was wearing a pretty floral dress; and Summer was wearing a princess costume that she’d got for her birthday, which she insisted was her best outfit ever. To be honest, she barely took it off, but she did look very cute. I had made sure George groomed himself thoroughly and I had done the same. We both looked incredibly handsome, even if I did say so myself.
   We all waited, fidgeting and not quite knowing what to do with ourselves. Time crawled by so slowly, which it always did when you were waiting for something.
   Claire and Jonathan had met him, of course— our potential adoptee. They’d had lots of visits and trips with him, but now he was coming to our house to see if we were all going to live together. He couldn’t move straight in, he had to be happy here, but why wouldn’t he be? Our home was so full of love it radiated out of every room. He would fit right in, once he had time to get used to it. Just like me, and like George.
   I stretched as the doorbell went.
   ‘Oh goodness, they’re here. Do I look OK?’ Claire patted her hair and looked flustered. Claire’s mood had been so great lately, she was so happy and excited about the future. She kept saying that this was fate and she knew it was meant to be. And I think Jonathan believed her, finally.
   ‘You look lovely,’ Jonathan said, taking her hand. I could see he was sweating a bit as they made their way to the front door.
   ‘Me too!’ Summer shouted as she followed them, George and myself on her heels.
   Jonathan opened the door, and in walked a lady holding the hand of a boy about Henry’s age. He looked terrified, and clutched the lady’s hand tightly. My heart went out to him; if anyone needed a cat it was this boy, I could immediately tell.
   ‘Hi, Marie,’ Claire said, shaking hands with the lady.
   ‘Hi, guys, Summer,’ Marie said.
   Claire knelt down on the floor.‘Hello, Toby, welcome to our house,’ she said gently. The boy looked at her and smiled uncertainly.
   ‘Toby.’ Summer jumped forward and smiled at him.‘I’m a princess.’
   ‘Hi, Summer.’ He seemed a bit more at ease with her, but still shuffled from foot to foot. I watched Claire kneeling before him, with Summer next to her. Jonathan hung back slightly.
   I decided to introduce myself. He must have been feeling so mixed up, and he was so young to have to handle such emotions. I lost my first home when I was too young to fully understand and it had been the hardest time of my life. I wanted him to know I knew how he felt, in my own way.
   ‘Miaow,’ I said, rubbing his legs.
   ‘A cat!’ he exclaimed, and sat down on the floor to stroke me. Claire followed suit as did Summer. George joined us.
   ‘Another cat!’ Toby said, even happier to see George, who crawled into his lap. This boy was all right, he clearly loved cats. Summer giggled, and Toby looked at her and giggled too. I felt choked up as I saw Claire’s eyes fill with tears. We were both thinking the same thing, I was pretty sure. This is our boy.
   We all played on the floor for a while. Marie the social worker hung back but Jonathan still seemed rooted to the spot. I decided to go and give him a little nudge.
   ‘Who’s hungry?’ he asked finally, looking at me and then at them.
   ‘Me!’ Summer shouted.
   ‘Toby?’ Jonathan asked. Toby nodded shyly. We all looked at Jonathan. He had tears in his eyes, which was rare, and his voice was choked. I was so proud of all of them, but especially him, at that moment.
   He reached out his hand to Toby. Toby looked at it for a few seconds, but then he put his hand into Jonathan’s. Jonathan pulled him gently to his feet and held onto that little hand so tightly.
   ‘Come on, son,’ he said.
   Chapter Thirty-four [Ea?oeiea: i_034.jpg]
   When Toby had to leave, he said he didn’t want to go, and nor did anyone want to say goodbye. Although he was still shy and uncertain, he had enjoyed being with us, I could tell. I found it hard to accept that a boy who was five years old had to come and live with a new family. It was part of life that I would always find upsetting, confusing and just wrong. But then I also knew, watching how Claire, Jonathan and Summer were with him, that if he had to go to a new home, ours was the best.
   Marie took Claire and Jonathan aside and said the visit had gone very well and so they would be increasing the time Toby spent with us until it was decided he could come and live here, which she hoped would be sooner rather than later. Claire looked relieved and Jonathan beamed, proving us right, he could love a child that wasn’t biologically his. His eyes were already full of love. After Toby left, with many hugs and kisses and promises that he could come back soon, we were all emotionally drained.
   ‘So Toby’s going to come and live with us?’ George asked when I was trying to settle him in bed.
   ‘Yes. Claire will be his mummy and Jonathan will be his daddy.’
   ‘Like you and Tiger are to me?’
   ‘Yes, just like that.’
   ‘Because I love you, Dad, and I love Tiger-Mum too.’ I kissed him goodnight: there was only so much emotion one cat could take in a day and I had reached my happiness limit.
   ‘Jonathan, I didn’t want him to go,’ Claire said when we were alone later, after Summer and George were fast asleep.
   ‘Me neither, I almost couldn’t bear it. You were right. The minute I saw him, I knew he was my son. I don’t understand it but I looked into his eyes and I loved him. Right away, I loved him.’ Jonathan was crying again — this was a regular occurrence today.
   ‘Oh, Jon, I love you so much and Toby will be the luckiest boy having you as a father.’
   ‘He deserves it after what he’s been through.’
   ‘Jon, don’t talk about that, let’s look to the future.’
   ‘Can’t wait to take him to the football.’ Jonathan tried to laugh.
   ‘Summer might want to go too,’ Claire pointed out.
   ‘Of course. I’m not being sexist, I’ll take them both. But I think you’re right, you know, it feels as if our family is complete now. Us, Summer, Alfie, George and now Toby. It feels right. It feels really wonderful, in fact.’
   ‘I know exactly how you feel. I’m just so happy right now. I can’t wait to have that lovely little boy living here.’
   ‘It might be hard at first, he’s going to need a lot of time and attention and we need to make sure Summer doesn’t feel left out.’ Jonathan was always the voice of reason.
   ‘I know, Jon, and that’s why I’m taking a year off work, remember. I’ll have time to give them both the attention they need. Nothing worthwhile is easy but we are going to do this and we’re going to do it really, really well.’
   ‘Maybe I should listen to you more in future,’ Jonathan laughed.
   ‘Finally! It’s about time you realised that. But seriously, Jon, we’re going to be all right.’
   ‘No, Claire, we’re going to be more than all right.’
   I checked on George, who was snoring gently, before I got ready to go out. I went past the living room, where Claire and Jonathan were snuggled on the sofa, and left the house. There was someone I needed to see. I had taught my humans a lot, and of course my plan had ultimately worked, despite it going terribly wrong, but they had taught me a great deal too. Seeing my families pulling together, all of the parents reaffirming their love, or looking for new love, had opened my eyes. Being a parent, whether of a child or a kitten, gave you a different perspective. Love and parenting worked in so many different ways. For example my first human, Margaret, didn’t have human children, she had Agnes and then me, we were her babies and she parented us brilliantly. She showered us with love and affection, not to mention pilchards. And it was the same with Claire and Jonathan before Summer came along. You were parents to your pets, your pets were parents toyou. There were no rules when you loved — you just took care of each other.
   That was what I had learnt. I had also discovered that nothing is forever, so you need to snatch whatever happiness you can, when you can. You need to hold tight to what’s important to you and nurture and cherish it. You need to appreciate everyone you love every single day. Everyone had learnt something when George was missing, and I wondered if perhaps I had learnt the most.
   It wasn’t late, but I gently bumped the cat flap and waited in the back garden. After a few moments, Tiger emerged. The sky was dark blue, the moon bright and round; stars sparkled at us, it was a beautiful night. We sat on the back step, the place where our plan had gone wrong, looking up at the moon together, sitting side by side in silence.
   ‘How did today go?’ she finally asked, flicking her whiskers at me.
   ‘Wonderful, brilliant, it couldn’t have gone better if I’d planned it myself. Toby is a lovely little boy. I feel sad he doesn’t have a forever family already, but we’re also so lucky that we’re going to be it for him. You’ll love him too!’
   ‘Another kitten to worry about,’ Tiger grinned.‘Although perhaps it’s time to hang up your hat when it comes to plans to fix things.’
   ‘As if I will ever do that! Anyway, I don’t think he’s as naughty as George, or as bossy as Summer, but yes, of course I’ll worry about him, and love him, and do all I can to take care of him.’
   ‘Because that’s the kind of cat you are.’
   ‘It is. But I also need to appreciate those who help me, with George and my families, a bit more than I do at the moment,’ I said. My thoughts were clear but I was finding it hard to articulate them.
   ‘Anyone in particular?’ Tiger asked.
   ‘You know who I mean, Tiger. You. You’ve always been there for me, even after that business with Snowball you still were my best friend, and now you’re my co-parent.’
   ‘I’ve never heard of a co-parent,’ she said. She looked slightly embarrassed, probably because I had alluded to the time she told me she was in love with me.
   ‘You know I’ve learnt that love comes in all shapes and sizes. I think with Snowball it was young love, my first ever romance, I suppose, but we didn’t have too many responsibilities back then. I’ll always miss her a bit but life is different now and I wouldn’t change it for all the pilchards in the world.’
   ‘You wouldn’t?’
   ‘Tiger, what I’m trying to say, which I’m not doing very well, is that you’ve been by my side when it matters and I want us to be like that for a very, very long time.’
   ‘What do you mean?’
   ‘Our relationship — we’re best friends, we’re parents and we love each other. All that teasing about us being an old married couple, well, I see it now. Maybe not the passion of youth but a more mature kind where we love each other properly.’ I felt so flustered by this conversation.
   ‘So you think we’re like an old married couple?’ Tiger asked, her voice slightly mocking.
   ‘Yes, well, less of the old, but a married couple who have the utmost respect for each other, who both love George in a way where he will always come first, but also a couple who have fun, who laugh with each other, and have deep, deep feelings of love for each other — that’s how I feel, Tiger. And vanity aside, none of us are getting any younger, it’s about time I saw what was right in front of my face.’
   ‘Me.’
   ‘You.’
   ‘Oh, Alfie, I never thought you’d say this, I mean, I never dreamed after Snowball …’
   ‘Shush. Some things take longer to figure out. Like with Toby, that’s not an overnight thing and we aren’t either.’
   ‘But … we’re rock solid?’ Tiger asked. Her eyes were full of everything I loved about her: warmth, fun, friendship, beauty. I had taken her for granted for so long but now my eyes had definitely been opened.
   ‘Unbreakable. Like the best things in life, we’ve been worth waiting for, and now, Tiger, my love, the wait is over.’
   ‘I’ve loved you for so long, Alfie.’
   ‘I know, and I’m sorry it hasn’t been plain sailing, but now I can return that love. And I know one little kitten who will be incredibly happy.’
   As we both looked at the moon, my heart was full— of my families, of my cat friends, of Tiger and, most of all, of our kitten, George.

